#separator:tab
#html:false
marginal	"adj. of secondary or minor importance; not central. ""it seems likely to make only a marginal difference"" synonyms: slight, small, tiny, minute, insignificant, minimal, negligible ""the difference is marginal"""
idiosyncrasy	"/ˌidēəˈsiNGkrəsē/ n. a mode of behavior or way of thought peculiar to an individual. ""one of his little idiosyncrasies was always preferring to be in the car first""   n. a distinctive or peculiar feature or characteristic of a place or thing. ""the idiosyncrasies of the prison system"" synonyms: peculiarity, individual/personal trait, oddity, eccentricity, mannerism, quirk, whim, whimsy, fancy, fad, vagary, notion, conceit, caprice, kink, twist, freak, fetish, passion, bent, foible, crotchet, habit, characteristic, speciality, quality, feature"
incendiary	"/inˈsendēˌerē/ adj. capable of catching fire spontaneously; arousing to action or rebellion ""incendiary bombs""  synonyms: combustible, flammable, inflammable"
presumptuous	"/prəˈzəm(p)(t)SH(o͞o)əs/ adj.(of a person or their behavior) failing to observe the limits of what is permitted or appropriate. ""I hope I won't be considered presumptuous if I offer some advice"" synonyms: brazen, overconfident, arrogant, bold, audacious, forward, familiar, impertinent, insolent, impudent, cocky  ""the duchess would not put up with presumptuous servants"""
discern	"/dəˈsərn/ v. distinguish (someone or something) with difficulty by sight or with the other senses. ""she could faintly discern the shape of a skull"" synonyms: perceive, make out, pick out, detect, recognize, notice, observe, see, spot"
portcullis	/ˌpôrtˈkələs/  n. gate consisting of an iron or wooden grating that hangs in the entry to a castle or fortified town
provenance	"/ˈprävənəns/ n. the place of origin or earliest known history of something. ""an orange rug of Iranian provenance"" synonyms: origin, source, place of origin"
harness	"/ˈhärnəs/ n. a set of straps and fittings by which a horse or other draft animal is fastened to a cart, plow, etc., and is controlled by its driver. synonyms: tack, tackle, equipment   v. control and make use of (natural resources), especially to produce energy. ""attempts to harness solar energy"" synonyms: control, exploit, utilize, use, employ, make use of, put to use"
quench	"/kwen(t)SH/ v. satisfy (a desire). ""he only pursued her to quench an aching need"" synonyms: satisfy, slake, sate, satiate, gratify, relieve, assuage, take the edge off, indulge   v. extinguish (a fire). ""firemen hauled on hoses in a desperate bid to quench the flames"" synonyms: extinguish, put out, snuff out, smother, douse ""the flames were quenched"""
quiescent	"/kwēˈesnt/ adj. in a state or period of inactivity or dormancy. ""strikes were headed by groups of workers who had previously been quiescent"" synonyms: inactive, inert, idle, dormant, at rest, inoperative, deactivated, quiet antonyms: active"
fiducial	/fəˈdo͞oSH(ē)əl/ adj. based on trust; used as a fixed standard of reference for comparison or measurement
ancillary	"/ˈansəˌlerē/ adj. providing necessary support to the primary activities or operation of an organization, institution, industry, or system. ""the development of ancillary services to support its products""   adj. additional; subsidiary. ""paragraph 19 was merely ancillary to paragraph 16"" synonyms: additional, auxiliary, supporting, helping, extra, supplementary, supplemental, accessory, attendant"
resilient	"/rəˈzilyənt/ adj. (of a person or animal) able to withstand or recover quickly from difficult conditions. ""babies are generally far more resilient than new parents realize"" synonyms: strong, tough, hardy   adj. (of a substance or object) able to recoil or spring back into shape after bending, stretching, or being compressed. ""a shoe with resilient cushioning"" synonyms: flexible, pliable, supple"
hypnotize	"/ˈhipnəˌtīz/ v. produce a state of hypnosis in (someone). ""a witness had been hypnotized to enhance his memory"" synonyms: mesmerize, put into a trance ""he had been hypnotized as a stunt""   v. capture the whole attention of (someone); fascinate. ""hypnotized by the rain, Eric stared across the street"" synonyms: entrance, mesmerize, spellbind, enthrall, transfix, captivate, bewitch, charm, enrapture, grip, rivet, absorb, fascinate, magnetize ""they were hypnotized by the dancers"""
lethargic	"/ləˈTHärjik/ adj. affected by lethargy; sluggish and apathetic. ""I felt tired and a little lethargic"" synonyms: sluggish, inert, inactive, underactive, slow, torpid, lifeless"
apt	"/apt/ adj. appropriate or suitable in the circumstances. ""an apt description of her nature"" synonyms: suitable, fitting, appropriate, befitting, relevant, germane, applicable, apposite ""a very apt description of how I felt"" antonyms: inappropriate   adj. having a tendency to do something. ""she was apt to confuse the past with the present"" synonyms: inclined, given, likely, liable, disposed, predisposed, prone ""they're apt to get a bit sloppy"" antonyms: unlikely"
tautology	"/tôˈtäləjē/ n. the saying of the same thing twice in different words, generally considered to be a fault of style (e.g., they arrived one after the other in succession). synonyms: pleonasm, repetition, reiteration, redundancy, superfluity, duplication ""avoid such tautology as ""let's all work together, everyone, as a team"" by saying simply ""let's work together"""""
concur	"/kənˈkər/  v. be of the same opinion; agree. ""the authors concurred with the majority"" synonyms: agree, be in agreement, go along, fall in, be in sympathy antonyms: disagree  ""The rules of the game require you to accept the umpire's decision, even if you do not concur with it.""   v. happen or occur at the same time; coincide. ""in tests, cytogenetic determination has been found to concur with enzymatic determination"" synonyms: coincide, be simultaneous, be concurrent, coexist ""the two events concurred"""
digress	"/dīˈɡres/ v. leave the main subject temporarily in speech or writing. ""I have digressed a little from my original plan"" synonyms: deviate, go off on a tangent, get off the subject, get sidetracked, lose the thread, turn aside/away, depart, drift, stray, wander ""At one point, the speaker digressed to tell of an incident in her childhood, but then she got right back to the topic."""
galore	"/ɡəˈlôr/ adj. in abundance. ""there were prizes galore for everything"" synonyms: aplenty, in abundance, in profusion, in great quantities, in large numbers, by the dozen"
hostile	"adj. unfriendly; antagonistic. ""a hostile audience"" synonyms: unfriendly, unkind, bitter, unsympathetic, malicious, vicious, rancorous, venomous, poisonous, virulent antonyms: friendly, mild"
inter	"/ɪnˈtəː/ v. put into the earth; entomb  ""he was interred with the military honors due to him"""
novice	"/ˈnävəs/ n. a person new to or inexperienced in a field or situation. ""he was a complete novice in foreign affairs"" synonyms: beginner, learner, neophyte, newcomer, initiate, tyro, fledgling antonyms: expert, veteran"
suffice	"/səˈfīs/ v. be enough, adequate; serve  ""a quick look should suffice"" synonyms: be enough, be sufficient, be adequate, do, serve, meet requirements, satisfy demands, answer/meet one's needs, answer/serve the purpose ""a simple yes or no will suffice"""
mingle	"/ˈmiNGɡəl/ v. mix or cause to mix together. ""the sound of voices mingled with a scraping of chairs"" synonyms: mix, blend, intermingle, intermix, interweave, interlace, combine, merge, fuse, unite, join, amalgamate, meld, mesh ""fact and fiction are skillfully mingled in his novels"" antonyms: separate, be separated"
pounce	"/pouns/ v. move down on as if in an attack ""The bird quickly pounced its prey."""
flutter	"/ˈflədər/ v. (of a bird or other winged creature) flap (its wings) quickly and lightly. ""the lark fluttered its wings, hovering"" synonyms: flap, move up and down, beat, quiver, agitate, vibrate, whiffle"
astonish	"/əˈstäniSH/ v. surprise or impress (someone) greatly. ""you never fail to astonish me"" synonyms: amaze, astound, stagger, surprise, startle, stun, confound, dumbfound, strike dumb, boggle, stupefy, daze, shock, take aback, leave open-mouthed, leave aghast"
daub	"/dôb/ v. coat, cover, plaster, slather ""Jeffrey decorated his room by daubing red paint in patches all over his walls.""  synonyms: smear, bedaub, plaster, splash, spatter, splatter, cake, cover, smother, coat ""he daubed a rock with paint"""
feat	"/fēt/ n. achievement, exploit ""The Taj Mahal is considered a remarkable feat of engineering.""  ""the new printing presses were considerable feats of engineering"" synonyms: achievement, accomplishment, attainment, coup, triumph"
intrigue	"/inˈtrēɡ/ v. arouse the curiosity or interest of; fascinate. ""I was intrigued by your question"" ""Young albert was intrigued by the mysteries of science."" synonyms: interest, be of interest to, fascinate, arouse someone's curiosity, arouse someone's interest, pique someone's curiosity, pique someone's interest, attract    v. make secret plans to do something illicit or detrimental to someone; plot, conspire ""the delegates were intriguing for their own gains"" ""The police didn't believe Jim intrigued with the enemy against the government."""
luxuriant	"/ˌləkˈSHo͝orēənt/ adj. rich and profuse in growth; lush. ""forests of dark, luxuriant foliage"" synonyms: lush, rich, abundant, profuse, exuberant, opulent, riotous, prolific, vigorous antonyms: barren, sparse   ""Tracts of luxuriant plant life and colonies of teeming insects cover the Amazon river basin."""
render	"/ˈrendər/ v. provide or give (a service, help, etc.). ""money serves as a reward for services rendered"" synonyms: give, provide, supply, furnish, contribute   v. cause to be or become; make. ""the rains rendered his escape impossible"" synonyms: make, cause to be/become, leave ""her fury rendered her speechless""   v. represent or depict artistically. ""the eyes and the cheeks are exceptionally well rendered"" synonyms: paint, draw, depict, portray, represent, execute"
renowned	"/rəˈnound/ adj. known or talked about by many people; famous. ""a restaurant renowned for its Southwestern-style food"" synonyms: famous, celebrated, famed, eminent, distinguished, acclaimed, illustrious, preeminent, prominent, great, esteemed, of note, of repute, well known, well-thought-of ""a renowned Indian filmmaker"" antonyms: unknown"
rugged	"/ˈrəɡəd/ adj. (of ground or terrain) having a broken, rocky, and uneven surface. ""a rugged coastline"" synonyms: rough, uneven, bumpy, rocky, stony, irregular, pitted, broken up, jagged, craggy, precipitous  ""the rugged coast path meanders among tall cliffs""   adj. (of a machine or other manufactured object) strongly made and capable of withstanding rough handling. ""the binoculars are compact, lightweight, and rugged"" synonyms: durable, robust, sturdy, strong, strongly made, hardwearing, built to last, tough, resilient ""the sort of conditions which could tear a wheel off a less rugged vehicle""   adj. having or requiring toughness and determination. ""a week of rugged, demanding adventure at an outdoor training center"" synonyms: austere, tough, harsh, spartan, exacting, taxing, demanding, difficult, hard, arduous, rigorous, strenuous, onerous ""a rugged outdoor life"""
speculative	"/ˈspekyəˌlādiv/ adj. engaged in, expressing, or based on conjecture rather than knowledge. ""discussion of the question is largely speculative"" synonyms: conjectural, suppositional, theoretical, hypothetical, putative, academic, notional, abstract"
subordinate	"/səˈbôrd(ə)nət/ adj. lower in rank or position. ""his subordinate officers"" synonyms: lower-ranking, junior, lower, supporting ""subordinate staff"" antonyms: senior   /səˈbôrdənāt/ v. of less or secondary importance. ""in adventure stories, character must be subordinate to action"" synonyms: secondary, lesser, minor, subsidiary, subservient, ancillary, auxiliary, peripheral, marginal antonyms: central"
torrential	"/təˈren(t)SHəl/ adj. (of rain) falling rapidly and in copious quantities. ""a torrential downpour""  synonyms: copious, heavy, teeming, pelting, severe, relentless, violent ""he would never forget the misery associated with those torrential rains"" ""The village was flooded after eight hours of torrential rains."""
assume	"/əˈso͞om/ v. suppose to be the case, without proof. ""you're afraid of what people are going to assume about me"" synonyms: presume, suppose, take it (as given), take for granted, take as read, conjecture, surmise, conclude, deduce, infer, reckon, reason, think, fancy, believe, understand, gather, figure ""I assumed he wanted me to keep the book""  v. take or begin to have (power or responsibility). ""he assumed full responsibility for all organizational work"" synonyms: accept, shoulder, bear, undertake, take on/up, manage, handle, deal with ""they are to assume more responsibility""   v. take on (a specified quality, appearance, or extent). ""militant activity had assumed epidemic proportions"" synonyms: acquire, take on, come to have ""the disease may assume epidemic proportions"""
attain	"/əˈtān/ v. succeed in achieving (something that one desires and has worked for). ""clarify your objectives and ways of attaining them"" synonyms: achieve, accomplish, reach, obtain, gain, procure, secure, get, hook, net, win, earn, acquire"
cede	"/sēd/ v. give up (power or territory). ""they have had to cede control of the schools to the government"" synonyms: surrender, concede, relinquish, yield, part with, give up"
glossy	"adj. shiny and smooth. ""thick, glossy, manageable hair"" synonyms: shiny, gleaming, lustrous, brilliant, shimmering, glistening, satiny, sheeny, smooth, glassy antonyms: dull, lusterless"
hallmark	"/ˈhôlˌmärk/ n. a mark stamped on articles of gold, silver, or platinum in Britain, certifying their standard of purity. synonyms: assay mark, official mark, stamp of authenticity ""the hallmark on silver"""
linger	"/ˈliNGɡər/ v. stay in a place longer than necessary, typically because of a reluctance to leave. ""she lingered in the yard, enjoying the warm sunshine"" synonyms: wait around, stay, remain, wait, stay put, tarry; lag, procrastinate, loiter antonyms: leave   “Her perfume lingered on”"
loathe	"/rəˈpəɡnəns/ v. feel intense dislike or disgust for. ""she loathed him on sight"" synonyms: hate, detest, abhor, execrate, have a strong aversion to, feel repugnance toward, not be able to bear/stand, be repelled by antonyms: love ""The reclusive celebrity loathes interviews and being photographed."""
observe	"/əbˈzərv/ v. fulfill or comply with (a social, legal, ethical, or religious obligation). ""a tribunal must observe the principles of natural justice"" synonyms: comply with, abide by, keep, obey, adhere to, heed, honor, be heedful of, respect, follow, consent to, acquiesce in, accept, fulfill ""both countries agreed to observe the ceasefire"" antonyms: disregard, ignore ""The Fosters observe the tradition of a family get-together every last Saturday of the month."""
engrossed	"/inˈɡrōst/ adj. having all one's attention or interest absorbed by someone or something. ""they seemed to be engrossed in conversation"""
ingrained	"/inˈɡrānd/ adj. (of a habit, belief, or attitude) firmly fixed or established; difficult to change. ""his deeply ingrained Catholic convictions"" synonyms: entrenched, established, deep-rooted, deep-seated, fixed, firm, unshakable, ineradicable, well established antonyms: transient"
utterly	"/ˈədərlē/ adv. completely and without qualification; absolutely. ""he looked utterly ridiculous"" synonyms: completely, totally, absolutely, entirely, wholly, fully, thoroughly, quite, altogether, one hundred percent, downright, outright, unqualifiedly, in all respects, unconditionally, perfectly, implicitly, unrestrictedly, really, veritably, categorically, consummately, undisputedly, unmitigatedly, wholeheartedly, radically, stark, just, to the hilt, to the core, all the way, to the maximum extent, extremely, infinitely, unlimitedly, limitlessly, ultimately"
afford	"/əˈfôrd/ v. provide or supply (an opportunity or facility). ""the rooftop terrace affords beautiful views"" synonyms: provide, supply, furnish, offer, give, make available, yield"
irreparable	"/i(r)ˈrep(ə)rəb(ə)l adj. (of an injury or loss) impossible to rectify or repair. ""they were doing irreparable damage to my heart and lungs"" synonyms: irreversible, irrevocable, irrecoverable, unrepairable, beyond repair, unfixable, unrectifiable; hopeless ""irreparable damage to the landing module"" antonyms: repairable ""The soldier survived but suffered irreparable facial damage."""
outstanding	"/ˌoutˈstandiNG/ adj. remaining to be paid, done, or dealt with. ""how much work is still outstanding?"" synonyms: to be done, undone, not done, neglected, omitted, unattended to, unfinished, incomplete, left, remaining, pending, ongoing"
proposition	"/ˌpräpəˈziSH(ə)n/ n. a statement or assertion that expresses a judgment or opinion. ""the proposition that all men are created equal"" synonyms: theory, hypothesis, thesis, argument, premise, principle, theorem, concept, idea, statement ""the analysis derives from one proposition""   n. a suggested scheme or plan of action, especially in a business context. ""a detailed investment proposition"" synonyms: proposal, scheme, plan, project, idea, program, bid ""a business proposition"""
solitary	"/ˈsäləˌterē/ adj. done or existing alone. ""I live a pretty solitary life"" synonyms: lonely, companionless, unaccompanied, by oneself, on one's own, alone, friendless antonyms: sociable"
vagary	"/ˈvāɡərē/ n. an unexpected and inexplicable change in a situation or in someone's behavior. ""the vagaries of the weather"" synonyms: change, fluctuation, variation, quirk, peculiarity, oddity, eccentricity, unpredictability, caprice, foible, whim, whimsy, fancy"
morbid	"/ˈmôrbəd/ adj. characterized by or appealing to an abnormal and unhealthy interest in disturbing and unpleasant subjects, especially death and disease. ""he had long held a morbid fascination with the horrors of contemporary warfare"" synonyms: ghoulish, macabre, unhealthy, gruesome, unwholesome antonyms: wholesome   병적인"
hem	"/hem/ n. the edge of a piece of cloth or clothing that has been turned under and sewn. synonyms: edge, edging, border, trim, trimming ""the hem of her dress""   v. surround and restrict the space or movement of. ""he was hemmed in by the tables"""
claustrophobia	n. an abnormal fear of being in enclosed or narrow places
agoraphobia	/ˌaɡərəˈfōbēə/ n. an abnormal fear of being in crowds, public places, or open areas, sometimes accompanied by anxiety attacks.
acrophobia	/ˌakrəˈfōbēə/ n. a pathological fear of heights
menagerie	"/məˈnajərē/ n. a collection of wild or unusual animals, especially for exhibition ""Some other specimen in the television menagerie"""
slugfest	/ˈsləɡˌfest/ n. a tough and challenging contest, especially in sports such as boxing and baseball
extradition	"/ˌekstrəˈdiSH(ə)n/ n. the surrender of an accused or convicted person by one state or country to another (usually under the provisions of a statute or treaty) ""They fought to prevent his extradition to the US""  synonyms: deportation, repatriation, expulsion ""detainees awaiting extradition"""
detain	"/dəˈtān/ v. keep (someone) from proceeding; hold back. ""she made to open the door, but he detained her"" synonyms: delay, hold up, make late, keep, slow up/down"
conundrum	"/kəˈnəndrəm/ n. a confusing and difficult problem or question  ""one of the most difficult conundrums for the experts"" synonyms: problem, difficult question, difficulty, quandary, dilemma ""the conundrums facing policy-makers"""
perspire	"/pərˈspī(ə)r/ v. give out sweat through the pores of the skin as a result of heat, physical exertion, or stress. ""Will was perspiring heavily"" synonyms: sweat, be dripping/pouring with sweat, glow, be damp, be wet, break out in a sweat"
lull	"/ləl/ v. calm or send to sleep, typically with soothing sounds or movements. ""the rhythm of the boat lulled her to sleep"" synonyms: soothe, calm, hush; rock antonyms: waken, agitate"
takeover	/ˈtākˌōvər/ n. an act of assuming control of something, especially the buying out of one company by another synonyms: buyout, merger, amalgamation
onset	"/ˈônˌset/ n. the beginning of something, especially something unpleasant. ""the onset of winter"" synonyms: start, beginning, commencement, arrival, (first) appearance, inception, emergence, day one, outbreak, dawn, genesis ""they foolishly ignored the onset of his aggressive behavior"" antonyms: end"
unwittingly	/ˌənˈwidiNGlē/ adv. without being aware; unintentionally
vigilant	"/ˈvijələnt/ adj. keeping careful watch for possible danger or difficulties. ""the burglar was spotted by vigilant neighbors"" synonyms: watchful, observant, attentive, alert, eagle-eyed, hawk-eyed, on the lookout, on one's toes, on the qui vive antonyms: inattentive"
clutter	"/ˈklədər/ v. crowd (something) untidily; fill with clutter. ""his apartment was cluttered with paintings and antiques"" synonyms: litter, mess up, disarrange; be strewn, be scattered ""the garden was cluttered with tools""   n. an untidy state. ""the room was in a clutter of smelly untidiness"" synonyms: mess, jumble, litter, heap, tangle, muddle, hodgepodge ""a clutter of toys"""
altercation	"/ˌôltərˈkāSH(ə)n/ n. a noisy argument or disagreement, especially in public  ""I had an altercation with the conductor"" synonyms: argument, quarrel, squabble, fight, shouting match, disagreement, contretemps, difference of opinion, falling-out, dispute, disputation, clash, fracas, wrangle, blowup, skirmish, run-in, war of words, donnybrook"
quadriplegic	"/ˌkwädrəˈplējik/ adj. affected by or relating to paralysis of all four limbs; tetraplegic. ""quadriplegic patients""    n. a person affected by paralysis of all four limbs  ""a car accident left him a quadriplegic"""
strive	"/strīv/ v. make great efforts to archieve or obtain something   v. struggle or fight vigorously. ""scholars must strive against bias"" synonyms: try (hard), attempt, endeavor, aim, venture, make an effort, exert oneself, do one's best, do all one can, do one's utmost, labor, work"
manifest	"/ˈmanəˌfest/ adj. clear or obvious to the eye or mind  ""the system's manifest failings"" synonyms: obvious, clear, plain, apparent, evident, patent, palpable, distinct, definite, blatant, overt, glaring, barefaced, explicit, transparent, conspicuous, undisguised, unmistakable, noticeable, perceptible, visible, recognizable ""his manifest lack of interest"" antonyms: secret   v. be evidence of; prove. ""bad industrial relations are often manifested in disputes and strikes"" synonyms: be evidence of, be a sign of, indicate, show, attest to, reflect, bespeak, prove, establish, evidence, substantiate, corroborate, confirm ""his positive potential is manifested by his art"" antonyms: mask"
evasive	"/əˈvāsiv/ adj. tending to avoid commitment or self-revelation, especially by responding only indirectly  ""she was evasive about her phone number"" synonyms: equivocal, prevaricating, elusive, ambiguous, noncommittal, vague, inexplicit, unclear"
construe	"/kənˈstro͞o/ v. interpret (a word or action) in a particular way. ""his words could hardly be construed as an apology"" synonyms: interpret, understand, read, see, take, take to mean, regard ""I'm not sure you've properly construed what I just said"""
attest	"/əˈtest/ v. provide or serve as clear evidence of  ""his status is attested by his recent promotion""  synonyms: certify, corroborate, confirm, verify, substantiate, authenticate, evidence, demonstrate, show, prove antonyms: disprove"
disdain	"/disˈdān/  n. the feeling that someone or something is unworthy of one's consideration or respect; contempt. ""her upper lip curled in disdain"" synonyms: contempt, scorn, scornfulness, contemptuousness, derision, disrespect antonyms: respect    v. consider to be unworthy of one's consideration. ""gamblers disdain four-horse races"" synonyms: scorn, deride, pour scorn on, regard with contempt, sneer at, sniff at, curl one's lip at, look down one's nose at, look down on"
expedite	"/ˈekspəˌdīt/ v. make (an action or process) happen sooner or be accomplished more quickly. ""he promised to expedite economic reforms"" synonyms: speed up, accelerate, hurry, hasten, step up, quicken, precipitate, dispatch"
pungent	"/ˈpənjənt/ adj. having a sharply strong taste or smell  ""the pungent smell of frying onions"" synonyms: strong, powerful, pervasive, penetrating antonyms: bland, mild   adj. (of comment, criticism, or humor) having a sharp and caustic quality. synonyms: caustic, biting, trenchant, cutting, acerbic, sardonic, sarcastic, scathing, acrimonious, barbed, sharp, tart, incisive, bitter, venomous, waspish ""pungent remarks"" antonyms: bland, mild"
heighten	"/ˈhītn/  v. make or become more intense. ""the pleasure was heightened by the sense of guilt that accompanied it"" synonyms: intensify, increase, enhance, add to, augment, boost, strengthen, deepen, magnify, amplify, aggravate, reinforce antonyms: reduce"
peripheral	"/pəˈrif(ə)rəl/ adj. relating to or situated on the edge or periphery of something  ""the peripheral areas of Europe"" synonyms: outlying, outer, on the edge/outskirts, surrounding ""the city's peripheral subdivisions""   adj. of secondary or minor importance; marginal. ""she will see their problems as peripheral to her own"" synonyms: secondary, subsidiary, incidental, tangential, marginal, minor, unimportant, lesser, inessential, nonessential, immaterial, ancillary ""peripheral issues"" antonyms: central"
artery	/ˈärdərē/ n. any of the muscular-walled tubes forming part of the circulation system by which blood is conveyed from the heart to all parts of the body
euphoric	/yo͞oˈfôrik/ adj. characterized by or feeling intense excitement and happiness synonyms: elated, happy, joyful, delighted, gleeful
cessation	"/seˈsāSH(ə)n/ n. the fact or process of ending or being brought to an end. ""the cessation of hostilities"" synonyms: end, ending, termination, stopping, halting, ceasing, finish, finishing, stoppage, closing, closure, close, conclusion, winding up, discontinuation, discontinuance, breaking off, abandonment, interruption, suspension, cutting short"
gravel	/ˈɡravəl/ n. a loose aggregation of rock fragments
recline	"/rəˈklīn/ v. lean or lie back in a relaxed position with the back supported. ""she was reclining in a deck chair"" synonyms: lie, lie down, lie back, lean back"
torso	"/ˈtôrsō/ n. the trunk of the human body  synonyms: body, upper body, trunk, chest ""a clay figure of his torso"""
tandem	"/ˈtandəm/ n. a bicycle with seats and pedals for two riders, one behind the other   adj. having two things arranged one in front of the other. ""a tandem trailer"""
abdomen	/ˈabdəmən/ n. the part of the body of a vertebrate containing the digestive organs; the belly synonyms: stomach, belly, gut, middle, intestines
deem	/dēm/ v. regard or consider in a specified way synonyms: consider, regard as, judge, adjudge, hold to be, view as, see as, take for, class as, count, find, suppose, reckon
loom	"/lo͞om/ n. an apparatus for making fabric by weaving yarn or thread    v. appear as a shadowy form, especially one that is large or threatening. ""vehicles loomed out of the darkness"" synonyms: emerge, appear, come into view, take shape, materialize, reveal itself ""ghostly shapes loomed out of the fog""   v. (of an event regarded as ominous or threatening) seem about to happen. ""there is a crisis looming"" synonyms: be imminent, be on the horizon, impend, threaten, brew, be just around the corner, be in the air/wind ""without reforms, disaster looms"""
snug	"/snug/ adj. comfortable, warm, and cozy; well protected from the weather or cold  ""she was safe and snug in Ruth's arms"" synonyms: cozy, comfortable, warm, welcoming, restful, reassuring, intimate, sheltered, secure ""our tents were snug"" antonyms: bleak, unwelcoming"
weave	"/wēv/ v. form by interlacing long threads passing in one direction with others at a right angle to them  ""linen was woven in the district"" synonyms: entwine, lace, twist, knit, intertwine, braid, plait, loop ""flowers were woven into their hair"""
prostate	/ˈpräsˌtāt/ n. a compound tubuloalveolar exocrine gland of the male reproductive system in most mammals; a gland surrounding the neck of the bladder in male mammals and releasing prostatic fluid
esophagus	/əˈsäfəɡəs/ n. the part of the alimentary canal that connects the throat to the stomach; the gullet. In humans and other vertebrates it is a muscular tube lined with mucous membrane.
intestinal	"/inˈtestən(ə)l/ adj. relating to or affecting the intestine. ""the intestinal tract""  synonyms: enteric, gastroenteric, duodenal, celiac, gastric, ventral, stomach, abdominal ""he was treated for an intestinal complaint"""
synergistic	/ˌsinərˈjistik/ adj. relating to the interaction or coorperation of two or more organizations, substances, or other agents to produce a combined effect greater than the sum of their separeate effects
write-in	n. a vote cast for an unlisted candidate by writing their name on a ballot paper
litigation	"/ˌlidəˈɡāSH(ə)n/ n. the process of taking legal action. ""the company wishes to avoid litigation"" synonyms: legal proceedings, legal action, lawsuit, legal dispute, legal case, case, suit, prosecution, indictment ""his attorneys advised him to avoid the litigation that his friends were suggesting"""
urge	"/ərj/ v. try earnestly or persistently to persuade (someone) to do something. ""he urged her to come and stay with us""   n. a strong desire or impulse. ""the urge for revenge"" synonyms: desire, wish, need, compulsion, longing, yearning, hankering, craving, appetite, hunger, thirst"
allegation	"/ˌaləˈɡāSH(ə)n/ n. a claim or assertion that someone has done something illegal or wrong, typically one made without proof.  ""he made allegations of corruption against the administration"" synonyms: claim, assertion, charge, accusation, declaration, statement, contention, deposition, argument, affirmation, attestation, grievance ""not one of the allegations against my client has been substantiated"""
contemplate	"/ˈkän(t)əmˌplāt/ v. look thoughtfully for a long time at. ""he sat on the carpet contemplating his image in the mirrors"" synonyms: look at, view, regard, examine, inspect, observe, survey, study, scrutinize, scan, stare at, gaze at, eye"
articulate	"/ärˈtikyələt/ adj. (of a person or a person's words) having or showing the ability to speak fluently and coherently. ""an articulate account of their experiences"" synonyms: eloquent, fluent, effective, persuasive, lucid, expressive, silver-tongued antonyms: unintelligible   /ärˈtikyəˌlāt/ v. express (an idea or feeling) fluently and coherently  ""they were unable to articulate their emotions"" synonyms: express, voice, vocalize, put in words, communicate, state"
interim	"/ˈin(t)ərəm/ n. the intervening time ""in the interim I'll just keep my fingers crossed""  synonyms: meantime, meanwhile, intervening time   adj. in or for the intervening period; provisional or temporary synonyms: provisional, temporary, pro tem, stopgap, short-term, fill-in, caretaker, acting, transitional, makeshift, improvised, impromptu ""an interim advisory body"" antonyms: permanent"
entail	"/inˈtāl/ v. involve (something) as a necessary or inevitable part or consequence  ""a situation that entails considerable risks"" synonyms: involve, necessitate, require, need, demand, call for"
rife	"/rīf/ adj. (especially of something undesirable or harmful) of common occurrence; widespread  ""male chauvinism was rife in medicine in those days"" synonyms: widespread, general, common, universal, extensive, ubiquitous, omnipresent, endemic, inescapable, insidious, prevalent ""violence is rife"" antonyms: scarce, unknown"
blob	"/bläb/ n. a drop of a thick liquid or other viscous substance  ""blobs of paint"" synonyms: drop, droplet, globule, bead, bubble ""a blob of cold gravy"""
gargantuan	"adj. enormous  ""a gargantuan appetite"" synonyms: huge, enormous, vast, gigantic, very big, giant, massive, colossal, mammoth, immense, mighty, monumental, mountainous, titanic, towering, tremendous, elephantine, king-size(d), economy-size(d), prodigious antonyms: tiny"
subside	"/səbˈsīd/ v. become less intense, violent, or severe. ""I'll wait a few minutes until the storm subsides""  synonyms: abate, let up, quiet down, calm, slacken (off), ease (up), relent, die down, recede, lessen, soften, diminish, decline, dwindle, weaken, fade, wane, ebb antonyms: intensify"
provocative	"/prəˈväkədiv/ adj. causing annoyance, anger, or another strong reaction, especially deliberately. ""a provocative article"" synonyms: annoying, irritating, exasperating, infuriating, maddening, vexing, galling antonyms: soothing, calming"
tug	"/təɡ/  v. pull (something) hard or suddenly. ""she tugged off her boots"" synonyms: pull (at), pluck, tweak, twitch, jerk, wrench"
churn	"/CHərn/ n. a machine or container in which butter is made by agitating milk or cream.   v. agitate or turn (milk or cream) in a machine in order to produce butter. ""the cream is ripened before it is churned""  synonyms: stir, agitate, beat, whip, whisk ""Mae churned the milk""   v. (of liquid) move about vigorously. ""in high winds most of the lake is churned up"" synonyms: heave, boil, swirl, toss, seethe"
precarious	"/prəˈkerēəs/ adj. not securely held or in position; dangerously likely to fall or collapse. ""a precarious ladder""   adj. dependent on chance; uncertain. ""she made a precarious living by writing"" synonyms: uncertain, insecure, unpredictable, risky, parlous, hazardous, dangerous, unsafe antonyms: safe"
bedrock	"n. the fundamental principles on which something is based  ""honesty is the bedrock of a good relationship""  synonyms: core, basis, base, foundation, roots, heart, backbone, principle, essence, nitty-gritty ""the bedrock of our society"""
hearsay	"/ˈhirˌsā/ n. information received from other people that one cannot adequately substantiate; rumor. ""according to hearsay, Bob had managed to break his arm"" synonyms: rumor, gossip, tittle-tattle, idle talk"
innuendo	"/ˌinyəˈwendō/ n. an allusive or oblique remark or hint, typically a suggestive or disparaging one. ""she's always making sly innuendoes"" synonyms: insinuation, suggestion, intimation, implication, hint, overtone, undertone, allusion, reference"
boulevard	"/ˈbo͝oləˌvärd/  n. a wide street in a town or city, typically one lined with trees. ""Sunset Boulevard""  synonyms: avenue, street, road, drive, thoroughfare, way ""the third right off of the boulevard"""
unwary	"/ˌənˈwerē/  adj. not cautious; not aware of possible dangers or problems. ""accidents can happen to the unwary traveler""  synonyms: incautious, careless, thoughtless, heedless, inattentive, unwatchful, off one's guard ""an unwary tourist is the pickpocket's blessing"""
stochastic	/stəˈkastik/ adj. randomly determined; having a random probability distribution or pattern that may be analyzed statistically but may not be predicted precisely.  “stochastic processes” synonyms: random
perseverance	"/ˌpərsəˈvirəns/ n. steadfastness in doing something despite difficulty or delay in achieving success. ""his perseverance with the technique illustrates his single-mindedness"" synonyms: persistence, tenacity, determination, staying power, indefatigability, steadfastness, purposefulness"
sanguine	"/ˈsaNGɡwən/ adj. optimistic or positive, especially in an apparently bad or difficult situation. ""he is sanguine about prospects for the global economy"" synonyms: optimistic, bullish, hopeful, buoyant, positive, confident, cheerful, cheery"
unfathomable	"/ˌənˈfaT͟Həməb(ə)l/ adj. incapable of being fully explored or understood  ""her gray eyes were dark with some unfathomable emotion""  synonyms: inscrutable, incomprehensible, enigmatic, indecipherable, impenetrable, obscure, esoteric, mysterious, mystifying, deep, profound ""unfathomable mysteries"" antonyms: penetrable   adj. (of water or a natural feature) impossible to measure the extent of"
amenable	"/əˈmenəb(ə)l/ adj. (of a person) open and responsive to suggestion; easily persuaded or controlled. ""parents who have had easy babies and amenable children""  synonyms: cooperative, acquiescent, compliant, accommodating, obliging, biddable, manageable, controllable, governable, persuadable, tractable, responsive, pliant, malleable, complaisant, easily handled antonyms: uncooperative   adj. (of a thing) capable of being acted upon in a particular way; susceptible to. ""the patients had cardiac failure not amenable to medical treatment"" synonyms: susceptible, receptive, responsive ""many cancers are amenable to treatment"" antonyms: unresponsive, resistant"
recapitulate	"/ˌrēkəˈpiCHəˌlāt/ v. summarize and state again the main points of. ""he began to recapitulate his argument with care"" synonyms: summarize, sum up"
liaison	"/ˈlēəˌzän/ n. communication or cooperation that facilitates a close working relationship between people or organizations. ""the head porter works in close liaison with the reception office"""
idyllic	"/īˈdilik/ adj. (especially of a time or place) like an idyll; extremely happy, peaceful, or picturesque. ""an attractive hotel in an idyllic setting"" synonyms: perfect, wonderful, blissful, halcyon, happy"
blot	"/blät/ v. dry (a wet surface or substance) using an absorbent material.  ""Guy blotted his face with a dust rag"" synonyms: soak up, absorb, sponge up, mop up   n. a dark mark or stain, typically one made by ink, paint, or dirt. ""a blot of ink"" synonyms: spot, dot, mark, blotch, smudge, patch, dab ""an ink blot""   n. a shameful act or quality that tarnishes an otherwise good character or reputation. ""the only blot on an otherwise clean campaign"" synonyms: blemish, taint, stain, blight, flaw, fault"
peg	"/peɡ/ n. a short cylindrical piece of wood, metal, or plastic, typically tapered at one end, that is used for holding things together, hanging things on, or marking a position. synonyms: pin, nail, dowel, skewer, spike, rivet, brad, screw, bolt, hook, spigot   v. fix or make fast with a peg or pegs. ""drape individual plants with nets, pegging down the edges""  synonyms: fix, pin, attach, fasten, secure, make fast ""the tarp is pegged to the ground"""
drape	"/drāp/ v. arrange (cloth or clothing) loosely or casually on or around something. ""she draped a shawl around her shoulders"""
satirical	"/səˈtirək(ə)l/ adj. containing or using satire. ""a New York-based satirical magazine""   adj. (of a person or their behavior) sarcastic, critical, and mocking another's weaknesses. synonyms: mocking, ironic, ironical, satiric, sarcastic, sardonic"
satire	/ˈsaˌtī(ə)r/ n. the use of humor, irony, exaggeration, or ridicule to expose and criticize people's stupidity or vices, particularly in the context of contemporary politics and other topical issues. synonyms: mockery, ridicule, derision, scorn, caricature
belie	"/bəˈlī/ v. (of an appearance) fail to give a true notion or impression of (something); disguise or contradict.  ""his lively alert manner belied his years""  synonyms: contradict, be at odds with, call into question, show/prove to be false, disprove, debunk, discredit, controvert, negate ""his eyes belied his words"" antonyms: testify to, reveal   v. fail to fulfill or justify (a claim or expectation); betray. ""the notebooks belie Darwin's later recollection"""
twang	/twaNG/ n. a strong ringing sound such as that made by the plucked string of a musical instrument or a released bowstring.
pluck	"/plək/ v. take hold of (something) and quickly remove it from its place; pick.  ""she plucked a blade of grass""  synonyms: remove, pick (off), pull (off/out), extract, take (off) ""he plucked a thread from his lapel""   v. quickly or suddenly remove someone from a dangerous or unpleasant situation. ""the baby was plucked from a grim foster home""   n. spirited and determined courage. synonyms: courage, bravery, nerve, backbone, spine, daring, spirit, intrepidity, fearlessness, mettle, grit, true grit, determination, fortitude, resolve, stout-heartedness, dauntlessness, valor, heroism, audacity"
disenfranchisement	"/ˌdisənˈfran(t)SHīzmənt/  n. the state of being deprived of a right or privilege, especially the right to vote. ""the widespread disenfranchisement of minority voters"""
transphobia	"/ˌtranzˈfōbēə/ n. intense dislike of or prejudice against transsexual or transgender people. ""more than 120 complaints concerning transphobia in the media were made"""
inaugural	"/inˈôɡ(y)ərəl/ adj. marking the beginning of an institution, activity, or period of office. ""his inaugural concert as music director""  synonyms: opening, first, launching, initial, introductory, initiatory, maiden ""the inaugural meeting of the Geographic Society"" antonyms: final"
ableism	"/ˈābəˌlizəm/ n. discrimination in favor of able-bodied people. ""we were fed up with the ableism of the women's movement"""
puff	"/pəf/ n. a short, explosive burst of breath or wind. ""a puff of wind swung the weathervane around""  synonyms: gust, blast, flurry, rush, draft, waft, breeze, breath"
vape	"/vāp/ v. inhale and exhale the vapor produced by an electronic cigarette or similar device. ""I'd rather people vaped indoors than smoked outside"""
tout	"/tout/ v. attempt to sell (something), typically by pestering people in an aggressive or bold manner. ""Jim was touting his wares""   v. attempt to persuade people of the merits of (someone or something). ""the headquarters facility was touted as the best in the country"" synonyms: recommend, speak of, extol, advocate, talk of ""she's being touted as the next party leader"""
sleek	"/slēk/ adj. (of hair, fur, or skin) smooth and glossy. ""he was tall, with sleek, dark hair"" synonyms: smooth, glossy, shiny, shining, lustrous, silken, silky   adj. (of an object) having an elegant, streamlined shape or design. ""his sleek black car slid through the traffic"" synonyms: streamlined, trim, elegant, graceful ""the car's sleek lines""   v. make (the hair) smooth and glossy, typically by applying pressure or moisture to it. ""her black hair was sleeked down"""
ricochet	"/ˈrikəˌSHā/ v. (of a bullet, shell, or other projectile) rebound one or more times off a surface. ""a bullet ricocheted off a nearby wall"""
cull	"/kəl/ v. select from a large quantity; obtain from a variety of sources. ""anecdotes culled from Greek and Roman history""  synonyms: select, choose, pick, take, obtain, glean"
mural	"/ˈmyo͝orəl/ n. a painting or other work of art executed directly on a wall.   adj. of, like, or relating to a wall. ""a mural escarpment"""
massacre	"/ˈmasəkər/ n. an indiscriminate and brutal slaughter of people. ""the attack was described as a cold-blooded massacre"" synonyms: slaughter, wholesale/mass slaughter, indiscriminate killing, mass murder, mass execution, annihilation, liquidation, decimation, extermination"
holler	"/ˈhälər/ v. (of a person) give a loud shout or cry. ""he hollers when he wants feeding""  synonyms: shout, yell, cry, cry out, vociferate, call, call out, roar, bellow, bawl, bark, howl antonyms: whisper"
stub	"/stəb/ n. the truncated remnant of a pencil, cigarette, or similar-shaped object after use. ""he wagged his little stub of tail"""
tossup	"/ˈtôs ˌəp/n. the tossing of a coin to make a decision between two alternatives. ""employment-wise, at this stage it’s a toss-up between two jobs"""
haul	"/hôl/ v. (of a person) pull or drag with effort or force. ""he hauled his bike out of the shed""  synonyms: drag, pull, tug, heave, lug, hump, draw, tow ""she hauled the basket along"""
snub	"/snəb/ v. rebuff, ignore, or spurn disdainfully. ""he snubbed faculty members and students alike"" synonyms: rebuff, spurn, repulse, cold-shoulder, brush off, give the cold shoulder to, keep at arm's length"
sordid	"/ˈsôrdəd/ adj. involving ignoble actions and motives; arousing moral distaste and contempt. ""the story paints a sordid picture of bribes and scams""  synonyms: sleazy, dirty, seedy, seamy, unsavory, tawdry, cheap, debased, degenerate, dishonorable, disreputable, discreditable, contemptible, ignominious, shameful, abhorrent ""a sordid love affair"" antonyms: respectable"
baron	"/ˈberən/ n. an important or powerful person in a specified business or industry. ""a press baron"" synonyms: magnate, tycoon, mogul, captain of industry, nabob, mandarin ""a steel baron"""
confer	"/kənˈfər/ v. grant or bestow (a title, degree, benefit, or right). ""moves were made to confer an honorary degree on her"" synonyms: bestow on, present to, grant to, award to, decorate with, honor with, give to, endow with, extend to ""she conferred a knighthood on him""   v. have discussions; exchange opinions. ""the officials were conferring with allies"" synonyms: consult, talk, speak, converse, have a chat, have a tête-à-tête, parley"
pinnacle	"/ˈpinək(ə)l/     n. the most successful point; the culmination.  ""he had reached the pinnacle of his career""  synonyms: highest level, peak, height, high point, top, capstone, apex, zenith, apogee, acme ""the pinnacle of the sport"""
shun	"/SHən/  v. persistently avoid, ignore, or reject (someone or something) through antipathy or caution. ""he shunned fashionable society""  synonyms: avoid, evade, eschew, steer clear of, shy away from, fight shy of, keep one's distance from, give a wide berth to, have nothing to do with antonyms: welcome"
fraught	"/frôt/ adj. causing or affected by great anxiety or stress. ""there was a fraught silence""  synonyms: anxious, worried, stressed, upset, distraught, overwrought, worked up, antsy, agitated, distressed, distracted, desperate, frantic, panic-stricken, panic-struck, panicky"
apparatus	"/ˌapəˈradəs/ n. the technical equipment or machinery needed for a particular activity or purpose. ""laboratory apparatus"" synonyms: equipment, gear, rig, tackle, gadgetry   n. a complex structure within an organization or system. ""the apparatus of government"" synonyms: structure, system, framework, organization, network"
amid	"/əˈmid/  prep. surrounded by; in the middle of. ""our dream home, set amid magnificent rolling countryside"" synonyms: in the middle of, surrounded by, among, amongst"
clutch	"/kləCH/ n. a person's power or control, especially when perceived as cruel or inescapable. ""she escaped the clutches of her temperamental family"" synonyms: power, control, domination, command, rule, tyranny   v. grasp or seize (something) tightly or eagerly. ""he stood clutching a microphone"" synonyms: grip, grasp, clasp, cling to, hang on to, clench, hold"
disillusion	"/ˌdisəˈlo͞oZHən/ n. disappointment resulting from the discovery that something is not as good as one believed it to be. ""enthusiasm for the government evaporated into a more cynical disillusion"" synonyms: disabuse, enlighten, set straight, open someone's eyes; disenchant, shatter someone's illusions, disappoint, make sadder and wiser ""we pretended to have a happy marriage because we didn't want to disillusion the children"" antonyms: deceive"
breach	"/brēCH/ n. an act of breaking or failing to observe a law, agreement, or code of conduct. ""a breach of confidence"" synonyms: contravention, violation, infringement, infraction, transgression, neglect ""a clear breach of the regulations""   v. make a gap in and break through (a wall, barrier, or defense). ""the river breached its bank"" synonyms: break (through), burst (through), rupture"
rein	"/rān/  v. check or guide (a horse) by pulling on its reins. ""he reined in his horse and waited for her""   v. keep under control; restrain. ""with an effort, she reined back her impatience"" synonyms: restrain, check, curb, constrain, hold back/in, keep under control, regulate, restrict, control, curtail, limit ""they reined back costs"""
grudge	"/ɡrəj/ n. a persistent feeling of ill will or resentment resulting from a past insult or injury. ""she held a grudge against her former boss""  synonyms: grievance, resentment, bitterness, rancor, pique, umbrage, dissatisfaction, disgruntlement, bad feelings, hard feelings, ill feelings, ill will, animosity, antipathy, antagonism, enmity, animus ""a former employee with a grudge"""
gripe	"/ɡrīp/ v. express a complaint or grumble about something, especially something trivial. ""they gripe about the busywork"" synonyms: complain, grumble, grouse, protest, whine, bleat   v. affect with gastric or intestinal pain. ""it gripes my belly like a green apple"""
rumble	"/ˈrəmbəl/ v. make a continuous deep, resonant sound. ""thunder rumbled, lightning flickered"" synonyms: boom, thunder, roll, roar, resound, reverberate, echo, grumble ""the distant rumble of big rigs on the highway"""
anonymity	"/ˌanəˈnimədē/ n. the condition of being anonymous. ""most people who agreed to talk requested anonymity"""
retaliation	"/rəˌtalēˈāSH(ə)n/ n. the action of returning a military attack; counterattack. ""the bombings are believed to be in retaliation for the trial of 15 suspects""  synonyms: revenge, vengeance, reprisal, retribution, requital, recrimination, repayment"
deputy	/ˈdepyədē/ n. a person whose immediate superior is a senior figure within an organization and who is empowered to act as a substitute for this superior. synonyms: second, second-in-command, number two
infiltrate	"/inˈfilˌtrāt/ v. enter or gain access to (an organization, place, etc.) surreptitiously and gradually, especially in order to acquire secret information. ""other areas of the establishment were infiltrated by fascists"" synonyms: penetrate, invade, intrude on, insinuate oneself into, worm one's way into, sneak into, slip into, creep into, impinge on, trespass on, butt into   v. (of a liquid) permeate (something) by filtration. ""virtually no water infiltrates deserts such as the Sahara"" synonyms: permeate, penetrate, pervade, filter through, percolate through, spread through, seep into, seep through, soak into, flow into, pass into, get into, enter ""mineral solutions infiltrate the rocks"""
delve	"/delv/ v. reach inside a receptacle and search for something. ""she delved in her pocket"" synonyms: rummage (around/about) in, search, hunt in, scrabble around in, root around/about in, ferret (about/around) in, fish about/around in, dig into/in"
sway	"/swā/ v. move or cause to move slowly or rhythmically backward and forward or from side to side. ""he swayed slightly on his feet"" synonyms: swing, shake, oscillate, undulate, move to and fro, move back and forth   v. control or influence (a person or course of action). ""he's easily swayed by other people"" synonyms: influence, affect, bias, persuade, win over"
retain	"/rəˈtān/ v. continue to have (something); keep possession of. ""built in 1830, the house retains many of its original features""  synonyms: keep, keep possession of, keep hold of, hold on to, hang on to antonyms: give up, discontinue"
impeachment	"/imˈpēCHmənt/ n. the action of calling into question the integrity or validity of something. ""the prosecutor's detailed impeachment of the character witness"""
blare	"/bler/ v. make or cause to make a loud, harsh sound. ""the ambulance arrived outside, siren blaring""  synonyms: blast, sound loudly, trumpet, bray, clamor, boom, blat, roar, thunder, bellow, resound ""sirens blared"" antonyms: murmur"
surefire	"n. certain to succeed. ""bad behavior is a sure-fire way of getting attention"""
faux	"/fō/ adj. made in imitation; artificial. ""a string of faux pearls"""
carnage	/ˈkärnij/ n. the killing of a large number of people. synonyms: slaughter, massacre, mass murder, butchery, bloodbath, bloodletting, gore
muddle	"/ˈmədl/ v. bring into a disordered or confusing state. ""they were muddling up the cards""  synonyms: confuse, mix up, jumble (up), disarrange, disorganize, disorder, disturb, mess up ""you've muddled things up"""
sprawl	"/sprôl/ v. sit, lie, or fall with one's arms and legs spread out in an ungainly or awkward way. ""the door shot open, sending him sprawling across the pavement""  synonyms: stretch out, lounge, loll, lie, recline, drape oneself, slump, flop, slouch ""he sprawled on a sofa"""
suffocate	"/ˈsəfəˌkāt/ v. die or cause to die from lack of air or inability to breathe. ""ten detainees suffocated in an airless police cell"" synonyms: smother, asphyxiate, stifle    v. have or cause to have difficulty in breathing. ""he was suffocating, his head jammed up against the back of the sofa"" synonyms: smother, asphyxiate, stifle"
single	"/ˈsiNGɡəl/ v. choose someone or something from a group for special treatment. ""one newspaper was singled out for criticism"" synonyms: select, pick out, choose, decide on"
fiery	"/ˈfī(ə)rē/ adj. consisting of fire or burning strongly and brightly. ""the sun was a fiery ball low on the hills"" synonyms: burning, blazing, flaming   adj. (of a person) having a passionate, quick-tempered nature. ""a fiery, imaginative Aries"" synonyms: passionate, impassioned, ardent, fervent, fervid, lively, zealous, spirited"
succumb	"/səˈkəm/ v. fail to resist (pressure, temptation, or some other negative force). ""he has become the latest to succumb to the strain""  synonyms: yield, give in/way, submit, surrender, capitulate, cave in ""she succumbed to temptation"""
relentless	"/rəˈlen(t)ləs/ adj. oppressively constant; incessant. ""the relentless heat of the desert"" synonyms: persistent, continuing, constant, continual, continuous, nonstop, never-ending, unabating, interminable, incessant, unceasing, endless, unending, unremitting, unrelenting, unrelieved   adj. harsh or inflexible. ""a patient but relentless taskmaster"" synonyms: harsh, grim, fierce, cruel, severe, strict, punishing, remorseless, merciless, pitiless, ruthless, unmerciful, unsparing, heartless, hard-hearted, hard, stony-hearted, stony, with a heart of stone, cold-blooded, cold-hearted, unforgiving, unfeeling, uncaring, unsympathetic, uncharitable, lacking compassion, unpitying"
frolic	"/ˈfrälik/ v. (of an animal or person) play and move about cheerfully, excitedly, or energetically. ""Edward frolicked on the sand"""
squalid	"/ˈskwäləd/ adj. (of a place) extremely dirty and unpleasant, especially as a result of poverty or neglect. ""the squalid, overcrowded prison""  synonyms: dirty, filthy, grubby, grimy, mucky, slummy, foul, vile, poor, sorry, wretched, miserable, mean, seedy, shabby, sordid, insalubrious antonyms: clean, pleasant"
vex	"/veks/ v. make (someone) feel annoyed, frustrated, or worried, especially with trivial matters. ""the memory of the conversation still vexed him"" synonyms: annoy, irritate, infuriate, anger, incense, inflame, enrage, irk, chagrin, exasperate, madden, pique, provoke, nettle, disturb, upset, perturb, discompose, put out"
repercussion	"/ˌrēpərˈkəSHən/ n. an unintended consequence occurring some time after an event or action, especially an unwelcome one. ""the move would have grave repercussions for the entire region"" synonyms: consequence(s), result(s), effect(s), outcome; reverberation(s), backlash, aftermath, fallout, tremors ""the political repercussions of the scandal"""
splinter	"/ˈsplin(t)ər/ v. break or cause to break into small sharp fragments. ""the soap box splintered"" synonyms: shatter, break into tiny pieces, smash, fracture, split, crack, disintegrate, crumble"
anguish	"/ˈaNGɡwiSH/  n. severe mental or physical pain or suffering. ""she shut her eyes in anguish"" synonyms: agony, pain, torment, torture, suffering, distress, angst, misery, sorrow, grief, heartache, desolation, despair ""the anguish of losing her beloved child could only have been compounded by the killer's indifference"" antonyms: happiness"
abound	"/əˈbound/ v. exist in large numbers or amounts. ""rumors of a further scandal abound"" synonyms: be plentiful, be abundant, be numerous, proliferate, superabound, be thick on the ground antonyms: meager, scanty"
imperil	"/imˈperəl/ v. put at risk of being harmed, injured, or destroyed. ""its fast-growing debt imperils the nation's future"" synonyms: endanger, jeopardize, risk, put at risk, put in danger, expose to danger, put in jeopardy, expose, leave vulnerable, put someone's life on the line"
convolution	"/ˌkänvəˈlo͞oSHən/ n. a thing that is complex and difficult to follow. ""the convolutions of farm policy"" synonyms: complexity, intricacy, complication, twist, turn, entanglement, contortion   n. a coil or twist, especially one of many. ""crosses adorned with elaborate convolutions"" synonyms: twist, turn, coil, spiral, twirl, curl, helix, whorl, loop, curlicue, kink, sinuosity"
grave	"/ɡrāv/ adj. giving cause for alarm; serious. ""a matter of grave concern"" synonyms: serious, important, weighty, profound, significant, momentous antonyms: trivial"
blindside	"v. catch (someone) unprepared; attack from an unexpected position. ""protection against being technologically blindsided"""
atrocity	"/əˈträsədē/ n. an extremely wicked or cruel act, typically one involving physical violence or injury. ""war atrocities"" synonyms: abomination, cruelty, enormity, outrage, horror, monstrosity, obscenity, violation, crime, abuse"
stave	"/stāv/ v. break something by forcing it inward or piercing it roughly. ""the door was staved in"""
abduct	"/abˈdəkt/ v. take (someone) away illegally by force or deception; kidnap. ""the millionaire who disappeared may have been abducted"" synonyms: kidnap, carry off, seize, capture, run away/off with, make off with, spirit away"
stagger	"/ˈstaɡər/ v. walk or move unsteadily, as if about to fall. ""he staggered to his feet, swaying a little"" synonyms: lurch, walk unsteadily, reel, sway, teeter, totter, stumble, wobble, move clumsily, weave, flounder, falter, pitch, roll ""Sonny took the blow on the temple and staggered sideways""   v. astonish or deeply shock. ""I was staggered to find it was six o'clock"" synonyms: astonish, amaze, nonplus, startle, astound, surprise, bewilder, stun, flabbergast, shock, shake, stop someone in their tracks, stupefy, leave open-mouthed, take someone's breath away, dumbfound, daze, benumb, confound, disconcert, shatter, take aback, jolt, shake up"
agonize	"/ˈaɡəˌnīz/ v. undergo great mental anguish through worrying about something. ""I didn't agonize over the problem""  synonyms: worry, fret, fuss, brood, overthink, upset oneself, rack one's brains, wrestle with oneself, be worried, be anxious, feel uneasy, exercise oneself ""he agonized about the impending layoffs"""
barter	"/ˈbärdər/    v. exchange (goods or services) for other goods or services without using money. ""he often bartered a meal for drawings""  synonyms: trade, swap, exchange, sell ""they bartered grain for salt"""
comb	"/kōm/ v. search carefully and systematically. ""police combed the area for the murder weapon""  synonyms: search, scour, explore, sweep, probe, hunt through, forage through, poke around in, go over, go over with a fine-tooth comb   v. untangle or arrange (the hair) by drawing a comb through it. ""neatly combed hair"" synonyms: groom, brush, untangle, smooth, straighten, neaten, tidy, arrange; curry ""she combed her hair"""
travail	"/trəˈvā(ə)l/ n. painful or laborious effort. ""advice for those who wish to save great sorrow and travail""  synonyms: ordeal, trial, tribulation, trial and tribulation, trouble, hardship, privation, stress"
extramarital	"/ˌekstrəˈmerədl/ adj. (especially of sexual relations) occurring outside marriage. ""an extramarital affair"""
raid	"/rād/ v. a sudden attack on an enemy by troops, aircraft, or other armed forces in warfare. ""a bombing raid"" synonyms: attack, assault, descent, blitz, incursion, sortie"
high-stakes	"adj. involving serious risks if there is no success ""a high-stakes negotiation"""
grant	"/ɡrant/  v. agree to give or allow (something requested) to. ""a letter granting them permission to smoke"" synonyms: allow, accord, permit, afford, concede, vouchsafe ""he granted them leave of absence""   v. agree or admit to (someone) that (something) is true. ""he hasn't made much progress, I'll grant you that"" synonyms: admit, accept, concede, yield, cede, allow, appreciate, recognize, acknowledge, confess   n. a sum of money given by a government or other organization for a particular purpose. ""a research grant"" synonyms: endowment, subvention, award, donation, bursary, contribution, allowance, subsidy, handout, allocation, allotment, gift, present"
gasp	"/ɡasp/ v. inhale suddenly with the mouth open, out of pain or astonishment. ""a woman gasped in horror at the sight of him"" synonyms: pant, puff, wheeze, breathe hard, choke, fight for breath ""she collapsed on the ground, gasping"""
pulpit	"/ˈpəlˌpit/ n. a raised platform or lectern in a church or chapel from which the preacher delivers a sermon. ""from the pulpit she would speak great and moving things from her heart"" synonyms: stand, lectern, platform, podium, stage, dais, rostrum"
syndicate	"/ˈsindikət/ n. a group of individuals or organizations combined to promote some common interest. ""large-scale buyouts involving a syndicate of financial institutions""   /ˈsindəˌkāt/ v. control or manage by a syndicate. ""the loans are syndicated to a group of banks"""
veer	"/vir/ v. change direction suddenly. ""an oil tanker that had veered off course"" synonyms: turn, swerve, curve, swing, sheer, career, weave, wheel"
embark	"/əmˈbärk/ v. begin (a course of action, especially one that is important or demanding). ""he embarked on a new career"" synonyms: begin, start, commence, undertake, set about, take up, turn one's hand to, get down to   v. go on board a ship, aircraft, or other vehicle. ""he embarked for India in 1817"" synonyms: board ship, go on board, go aboard, climb aboard, step aboard, take ship"
indictment	"/inˈdītmənt/ n. a formal charge or accusation of a serious crime. ""an indictment for conspiracy"" synonyms: charge, accusation, arraignment, citation, summons   n. a thing that serves to illustrate that a system or situation is bad and deserves to be condemned. ""these rapidly escalating crime figures are an indictment of our society"""
potshot	"/ˈpätˌSHät/ n. a shot aimed unexpectedly or at random at someone or something with no chance of self-defense. ""a sniper took a potshot at him""   n. a criticism, especially a random or unfounded one. ""the show takes wickedly funny potshots at movies"""
bluster	"/ˈbləstər/ v. talk in a loud, aggressive, or indignant way with little effect. ""you threaten and bluster, but won't carry it through"" synonyms: rant, rave, thunder, bellow, sound off   n. loud, aggressive, or indignant talk with little effect. ""their threats contained a measure of bluster"" synonyms: ranting, thundering, hectoring, bullying"
underscore	"/ˈəndərˌskôr/ v. underline (something); emphasize. ""the company underscored the progress made with fuel cells"""
schism	/ˈs(k)izəm/ n. a split or division between strongly opposed sections or parties, caused by differences in opinion or belief. synonyms: division, split, rift, breach, rupture, break, separation, severance
shed	"/SHed/ v. (of a tree or other plant) allow (leaves or fruit) to fall to the ground. ""both varieties shed leaves in winter""  v. discard (something undesirable, superfluous, or outdated). ""what they lacked was a willingness to shed the arrogance of the past""  synonyms: lose, get rid of, discard antonyms: put on, adopt, keep"
star turn	n. the person or act that gives the most heralded or impressive performance in a program.
revelation	"/ˌrevəˈlāSH(ə)n/ n. a surprising and previously unknown fact, especially one that is made known in a dramatic way. ""revelations about his personal life"" synonyms: disclosure, surprising fact, announcement, report"
reckoning	"/ˈrek(ə)niNG/ n. the action or process of calculating or estimating something. ""last year was not, by any reckoning, a particularly good one"" synonyms: calculation, estimation, count, computation, working out, summation, addition ""by my reckoning, this comes to $2 million""   n. a person's view, opinion, or judgment. ""by ancient reckoning, bacteria are plants"" synonyms: opinion, view, judgment, evaluation, estimate, estimation ""by her reckoning, the train was late"""
unheeded	"/ˌənˈhēdəd/ adj. heard or noticed but disregarded. ""my protest went unheeded""  synonyms: disregarded, ignored, neglected, overlooked, unnoted, unrecognized ""he was soon reminded of his parents' unheeded warnings"""
stalwart	"/ˈstôlwərt/ n. a loyal, reliable, and hardworking supporter or participant in an organization or team. ""the stalwarts of the Ladies' Auxiliary""  ""he remained a stalwart supporter of the cause""    synonyms: staunch, loyal, faithful, committed, devoted, dedicated, dependable, reliable, steady, constant, trusty, solid, hard-working, steadfast, redoubtable, unwavering antonyms: disloyal, unfaithful, unreliable"
ire	"/ˈī(ə)r/ n. anger. ""the plans provoked the ire of conservationists"" synonyms: anger, rage, fury, wrath, outrage, temper, crossness, spleen"
defiant	"/dəˈfīənt/ adj. showing defiance. ""she was in a defiant mood""  synonyms: intransigent, resistant, obstinate, uncooperative, noncompliant, recalcitrant antonyms: cooperative"
lace	"/lās/ v. fasten or tighten (a shoe or garment) by tying its laces. ""he put the shoes on and laced them up""  synonyms: fasten, do up, tie up, secure, knot ""he laced up his running shoes"" antonyms: untie"
impugn	"/imˈpyo͞on/ v. dispute the truth, validity, or honesty of (a statement or motive); call into question. ""the father does not impugn her capacity as a good mother""  synonyms: call into question, challenge, question, dispute, query, take issue with ""are you impugning my judgment?"""
indulge	"/inˈdəlj/ v. allow oneself to enjoy the pleasure of. ""we indulged in some hot fudge sundaes"" synonyms: wallow in, give oneself up to, give way to, yield to, abandon oneself to, give free rein to  v. become involved in (an activity, typically one that is undesirable or disapproved of). ""I don't indulge in idle gossip"""
steer	"/stir/ v. (of a person) guide or control the movement of (a vehicle, vessel, or aircraft), for example by turning a wheel or operating a rudder. ""he steered the boat slowly toward the busy quay"" synonyms: guide, direct, maneuver, drive, pilot, navigate"
disgruntled	"/ˌdisˈɡrən(t)ld/ adj. angry or dissatisfied. ""judges receive letters from disgruntled members of the public"" synonyms: dissatisfied, discontented, aggrieved, resentful, fed up, displeased, unhappy, disappointed, disaffected"
denounce	"/dəˈnouns/ v. publicly declare to be wrong or evil. ""the Assembly denounced the use of violence"" synonyms: condemn, criticize, attack, censure, castigate, decry, revile, vilify, besmirch, discredit, damn, reject, proscribe antonyms: praise   v. inform against. ""some of his own priests denounced him to the King for heresy"" synonyms: expose, betray, inform against, inform on"
pledge	"/plej/ n. a solemn promise or undertaking. ""the conference ended with a joint pledge to limit pollution""  synonyms: promise, undertaking, vow, word, word of honor, commitment, assurance, oath, guarantee ""his election pledge""   v. commit (a person or organization) by a solemn promise. ""the government pledged itself to deal with environmental problems"""
pardon	"/ˈpärdn/ n. the action of forgiving or being forgiven for an error or offense. ""he obtained pardon for his sins""  synonyms: forgiveness, absolution, clemency, mercy, leniency, remission ""pardon for your sins"""
perjury	"/ˈpərj(ə)rē/ n. the offense of willfully telling an untruth in a court after having taken an oath or affirmation. synonyms: lying under oath, giving false evidence/testimony, making false statements, willful falsehood ""she was found guilty of perjury"""
amok	"/əˈmək/ adv. behave uncontrollably and disruptively. ""stone-throwing anarchists running amok"" synonyms: go berserk, get out of control, rampage, riot, run riot, go on the rampage, behave like a maniac, behave wildly, behave uncontrollably, become violent, become destructive"
commute	"/kəˈmyo͞ot/ v. reduce (a judicial sentence, especially a sentence of death) to one less severe. ""the governor recently commuted the sentences of dozens of women convicted of killing their husbands""  synonyms: reduce, lessen, lighten, shorten, cut, attenuate, moderate ""his sentence was commuted"" antonyms: increase, uphold"
strenuous	"/ˈstrenyo͞oəs/ adj. requiring or using great exertion. ""all your muscles need more oxygen during strenuous exercise""  synonyms: arduous, difficult, hard, tough, taxing, demanding, exacting, exhausting, tiring, grueling, back-breaking antonyms: easy, halfhearted"
sour	"/ˈsou(ə)r/ v. feeling or expressing resentment, disappointment, or anger. ""she was quite a different woman from the sour, bored creature I had known""  synonyms: embitter, disillusion, disenchant, poison, alienate antonyms: improve"
absolve	"/əbˈsälv/ v. set or declare (someone) free from blame, guilt, or responsibility. ""the pardon absolved them of any crimes""  synonyms: exonerate, discharge, acquit, vindicate antonyms: blame, condemn, punish"
inveigh	"/inˈvā/ v. speak or write about (something) with great hostility. ""nationalists inveighed against those who worked with the British""  synonyms: fulminate against, declaim against, protest (against), rail against/at, rage at, remonstrate against antonyms: support"
clemency	"/ˈklemənsē/ n. mercy; lenience. ""an appeal for clemency""  synonyms: mercy, mercifulness, leniency, mildness, indulgence, quarter antonyms: ruthlessness"
bewilderment	"/biˈwildərmənt/ n. a feeling of being perplexed and confused. ""there was bewilderment at the shift of government policy"""
visceral	"/ˈvis(ə)rəl/ adj. relating to deep inward feelings rather than to the intellect. ""the voters' visceral fear of change"""
grim	"/ɡrim/ adj. forbidding or uninviting. ""his grim expression""  synonyms: stern, forbidding, uninviting, unsmiling, dour, formidable, harsh, steely, flinty, stony antonyms: amiable, pleasant, cheery"
lurid	"/ˈlo͝orəd/  adj. very vivid in color, especially so as to create an unpleasantly harsh or unnatural effect. ""lurid food colorings""  synonyms: bright, brilliant, vivid, glaring, shocking, fluorescent, flaming, dazzling, intense antonyms: muted, subtle"
dossier	"/ˈdɒsɪə,ˈdɒsɪeɪ/ n. a collection of documents about a particular person, event, or subject. ""we have a dossier on him"" synonyms: file, report, case history"
dressage	/ˈdresäZH/ n. the art of riding and training a horse in a manner that develops obedience, flexibility, and balance.
simmer	"/ˈsimər/ v. (of water or food) stay just below the boiling point while being heated. ""the goulash was simmering slowly on the stove"" synonyms: boil gently, cook gently, bubble, stew ""the soup was simmering on the stove""  v. be in a state of suppressed anger or excitement. ""she was simmering with resentment"" synonyms: be furious, be enraged, be angry, be incensed, be infuriated, seethe, fume, brim, smolder"
wobble	"/ˈwäbəl/ v. move unsteadily from side to side. ""the table wobbles where the leg is too short""  synonyms: rock, teeter, jiggle, sway, seesaw, shake"
ooze	"/o͞oz/ v. (of a fluid) slowly trickle or seep out of something; flow in a very gradual way. ""blood was oozing from a wound in his scalp""  synonyms: seep, discharge, flow, exude, trickle, drip, dribble, issue, filter, percolate, escape, leak, drain, empty, bleed, sweat, well; extravasate"
intestine	"/inˈtestən/ n. (in vertebrates) the lower part of the alimentary canal from the end of the stomach to the anus. ""the contents of the intestine"" synonyms: gut, guts, entrails, viscera"
allusive	"/əˈlo͞osiv/ adj. (of a remark or reference) working by suggestion rather than explicit mention. ""allusive references to the body"""
oblique	"/əˈblēk/ adj. neither parallel nor at a right angle to a specified or implied line; slanting. ""we sat on the settee oblique to the fireplace"" synonyms: slanting, slanted, sloping, at an angle, angled, diagonal, aslant, slant, slantwise, skew, askew, cater-cornered, kitty-corner ""an oblique line"" antonyms: straight  adj. not explicit or direct in addressing a point. ""he issued an oblique attack on the president""  synonyms: indirect, inexplicit, roundabout, circuitous, circumlocutory, implicit, implied, elliptical, evasive, backhanded ""an oblique reference to an inside joke"" antonyms: direct, explicit"
disparage	"/dəˈsperij/ v. regard or represent as being of little worth. ""he never missed an opportunity to disparage his competitors""  synonyms: belittle, denigrate, deprecate, trivialize, make light of, undervalue, underrate, play down antonyms: praise, overrate, complimentary"
insinuation	"/inˌsinyo͞oˈāSH(ə)n/ n. an unpleasant hint or suggestion of something bad. ""I've done nothing to deserve all your vicious insinuations"" synonyms: implication, inference, suggestion, hint, intimation, connotation, innuendo, reference, allusion, indication, undertone, overtone"
rutted	"/ˈrədəd/ adj. having long deep tracks made by the repeated passage of the wheels of vehicles. ""a gruelling drive on rutted dirt roads"""
carcass	/ˈkärkəs/ n. the dead body of an animal  synonyms: corpse, dead body, body, remains
upheaval	"/ˌəpˈhēvəl/ n. a violent or sudden change or disruption to something. ""major upheavals in the financial markets"" synonyms: disruption, disturbance, trouble, turbulence, disorder, confusion, turmoil, pandemonium, chaos, mayhem, cataclysm, shakeup, debacle"
stanch	"/stän(t)SH/ v. stop or restrict (a flow of blood) from a wound. ""colleagues may have saved her life by stanching the flow"""
trail	"/trāl/ v. draw or be drawn along the ground or other surface behind someone or something. ""Alex trailed a hand through the clear water"" synonyms: drag, sweep, swish, be drawn"
salvage	"/ˈsalvij/ v. rescue (a wrecked or disabled ship or its cargo) from loss at sea. ""an emerald and gold cross was salvaged from the wreck""  synonyms: rescue, save, recover, retrieve, raise, reclaim ""an attempt to salvage the vessel""   v. retrieve or preserve (something) from potential loss or adverse circumstances. ""it was the only crumb of comfort he could salvage from the ordeal"" synonyms: retain, preserve, conserve"
emissary	/ˈeməˌserē/ n. a person sent on a special mission, usually as a diplomatic representative. synonyms: envoy, ambassador, delegate, attaché, consul, plenipotentiary
endorse	"/inˈdôrs/ v. declare one's public approval or support of. ""the report was endorsed by the college""  synonyms: support, back, agree with, approve (of), favor, subscribe to, recommend, champion, stick up for, uphold, affirm, sanction antonyms: oppose"
feud	"/fyo͞od/ n. a prolonged and bitter quarrel or dispute. ""one of the most volatile feuds that currently rock the scientific community"" synonyms: vendetta, conflict"
penchant	"/ˈpen(t)SH(ə)nt/ n. a strong or habitual liking for something or tendency to do something. ""he has a penchant for adopting stray dogs""  synonyms: liking, fondness, preference, taste, relish, appetite, partiality, soft spot, love, passion, desire, fancy, whim, weakness, inclination, bent, bias, proclivity, predilection, predisposition ""I have a penchant for small dogs"""
pretense	"/prēˈtens/ n. an attempt to make something that is not the case appear true. ""his anger is masked by a pretense that all is well"" synonyms: make-believe, act, putting on an act, acting, dissembling, shamming, sham, faking, feigning, simulation, falsification, dissimulation, invention, imagination, self-deception, playacting, posturing, posture, posing, pose, cant, attitudinizing   n. a claim, especially a false or ambitious one. ""he was quick to disclaim any pretense to superiority"" synonyms: claim, aspiration, purporting, profession ""she herself had long since dropped any pretense to faith"""
cordial	"/ˈkôrjəl/ adj. warm and friendly. ""the atmosphere was cordial and relaxed""  synonyms: friendly, warm, genial, affable, amiable, pleasant, fond, affectionate, warmhearted, good-natured, gracious, hospitable, welcoming, hearty ""a cordial welcome"""
topple	"/ˈtäpəl/ v. overbalance or become unsteady and fall slowly. ""she toppled over when I touched her"" synonyms: fall, fall over, tumble, overturn, tip over, keel over, collapse"
languish	"/ˈlaNGɡwiSH/ v. (of a person or other living thing) lose or lack vitality; grow weak or feeble. ""plants may appear to be languishing simply because they are dormant"" synonyms: weaken, deteriorate, decline antonyms: thrive, flourish"
skein	"/skān/ n. a tangled or complicated arrangement, state, or situation. ""the skeins of her long hair"""
nook	"/no͝ok/ n. a corner or recess, especially one offering seclusion or security. ""the nook beside the fire"" synonyms: recess, corner, alcove, niche, cranny, bay, inglenook, cavity, cubbyhole, pigeonhole"
sweeping	"/ˈswēpiNG/ adj. wide in range or effect. ""we cannot recommend any sweeping alterations"" synonyms: extensive, wide-ranging, global, broad, comprehensive, all-inclusive, all-embracing, far-reaching, across the board antonyms: limited, narrow"
pragmatic	"/praɡˈmadik/ adj. dealing with things sensibly and realistically in a way that is based on practical rather than theoretical considerations. ""a pragmatic approach to politics"" synonyms: practical, matter-of-fact, sensible, down-to-earth, commonsensical, businesslike, having both/one's feet on the ground, hardheaded, no-nonsense ""she remains pragmatic in the most emotional circumstances"" antonyms: impractical"
temper	"/ˈtempər/ n. a person's state of mind seen in terms of their being angry or calm. ""he rushed out in a very bad temper""   v. improve the hardness and elasticity of (steel or other metal) by reheating and then cooling it.   v. serve as a neutralizing or counterbalancing force to (something). ""their idealism is tempered with realism"" synonyms: moderate, modify, modulate, mitigate, alleviate, reduce, weaken, lighten, soften"
tatters	"/ˈtadərz/ n. irregularly torn pieces of cloth, paper, or other material. synonyms: rags, scraps, shreds, bits, pieces, ribbons ""the satin had frayed to tatters"""
verdict	"/ˈvərdikt/n. a decision on a disputed issue in a civil or criminal case or an inquest. ""the jury returned a verdict of ‘not guilty.’"" synonyms: judgment, adjudication, adjudgment, decision, finding, ruling, resolution, pronouncement, decree, order, settlement, result, conclusion, opinion, prognosis, conviction, assumption, presumption"
tarnish	"/ˈtärniSH/ v. make or become less valuable or respected. ""his regime had not been tarnished by human rights abuses"" synonyms: sully, blacken, stain, blemish, blot, taint, soil, ruin, disgrace, mar, damage, harm, hurt, undermine, dishonor, stigmatize ""it tarnished his reputation"" antonyms: enhance"
burnish	"/ˈbərniSH/ v. polish (something, especially metal) by rubbing. ""highly burnished armor"" synonyms: polish, shine, buff, rub, gloss ""marks can be removed by burnishing the metal"""
wary	"/ˈwerē/ adj. feeling or showing caution about possible dangers or problems. ""dogs that have been mistreated often remain very wary of strangers"" synonyms: cautious, careful, circumspect, on one's guard, chary, alert, on the lookout, on one's toes, on the qui vive antonyms: inattentive, trustful"
foe	"/fō/ n. an enemy or opponent. ""join forces against the common foe"" synonyms: enemy, adversary, opponent, rival, antagonist, combatant, challenger, competitor, opposer, opposition, competition, other side ""a well-armed foe"" antonyms: friend"
extol	"/ikˈstōl/ v. praise enthusiastically. ""he extolled the virtues of the Russian peoples"" synonyms: praise enthusiastically, go into raptures about/over, wax lyrical about, sing the praises of, praise to the skies, acclaim, exalt, eulogize, adulate, rhapsodize over, rave about, enthuse about/over, overpraise antonyms: criticize"
lavish	"/ˈlaviSH/ adj. sumptuously rich, elaborate, or luxurious.  ""a lavish banquet""  synonyms: sumptuous, luxurious, costly, expensive, opulent, grand, splendid, rich, fancy, posh ""lavish parties"""
gritty	"/ˈɡridē/ adj. containing or covered with grit. synonyms: sandy, gravelly, pebbly, stony   adj. showing courage and resolve. ""a gritty pioneer woman"" synonyms: courageous, brave, plucky, mettlesome, stouthearted, valiant, bold, spirited, intrepid, tough, determined, resolute, purposeful, dogged, tenacious"
smudge	"/sməj/ v. cause (something) to become messily smeared by rubbing it. ""she dabbed her eyes, careful not to smudge her makeup"" synonyms: streak, mark, dirty, soil, blotch, blacken, smear, blot, daub, stain   n. a blurred or smeared mark on the surface of something. ""a smudge of blood on the floor"" synonyms: streak, smear, mark, stain, blotch, stripe, blob, dab ""a smudge of ink"""
ratchet	"/ˈraCHət/ n. a device consisting of a bar or wheel with a set of angled teeth in which a pawl, cog, or tooth engages, allowing motion in one direction only    v. cause something to rise (or fall) as a step in what is perceived as a steady and irreversible process. ""the Bank of Japan ratcheted up interest rates again"""
invoke	"/inˈvōk/ v. cite or appeal to (someone or something) as an authority for an action or in support of an argument. ""the antiquated defense of insanity is rarely invoked today"" synonyms: cite, refer to, adduce, instance"
incriminate	"/inˈkriməˌnāt/ v. make (someone) appear guilty of a crime or wrongdoing; strongly imply the guilt of (someone). ""he refused to answer questions in order not to incriminate himself"" synonyms: implicate, involve, enmesh"
dispense	"/dəˈspens/ v. distribute or provide (a service or information) to a number of people. ""he dispensed a gentle pat on Claude's back"" synonyms: distribute, pass around, hand out, dole out, dish out, share out   v. manage without; get rid of. ""let's dispense with the formalities, shall we?"" synonyms: waive, omit, drop, leave out, forgo"
precipitous	"/prəˈsipədəs/ adj. dangerously high or steep. ""the precipitous cliffs of the North Atlantic coast"" synonyms: steep, sheer, perpendicular, abrupt, sharp, vertical ""a precipitous drop""   adj. (of a change to a worse situation or condition) sudden and dramatic. ""the end of the war led to a precipitous decline in exports"" synonyms: sudden, rapid, swift, abrupt, headlong, speedy, quick, fast, precipitate ""his fall from power was precipitous"""
ghastly	"/ˈɡas(t)lē/ adj. causing great horror or fear; frightful or macabre. ""she was overcome with horror at the ghastly spectacle"" synonyms: terrible, horrible, grim, awful, dire antonyms: pleasant"
procure	"/prəˈkyo͝or/ v. obtain (something), especially with care or effort. ""food procured for the rebels"" synonyms: obtain, acquire, get, find, come by, secure, pick up   v. obtain (someone) as a prostitute for another person. ""he was charged with procuring a minor"" synonyms: pimp ""the police found that he was procuring"""
entice	"/inˈtīs/ v. attract or tempt by offering pleasure or advantage. ""a show that should entice a new audience into the theater"" synonyms: tempt, lure, allure, attract, appeal to"
surreptitiously	"/ˌsərəpˈtiSHəslē/ adv. in a way that attempts to avoid notice or attention; secretively. ""Mary surreptitiously slipped from the room"""
extort	"/ikˈstôrt/ v. obtain (something) by force, threats, or other unfair means. ""he was convicted of trying to extort $1 million from a developer"" synonyms: force, extract, exact, wring, wrest, screw, squeeze, obtain by threat(s), blackmail someone for"
coalition	"/ˌkōəˈliSH(ə)n/ n. an alliance for combined action, especially a temporary alliance of political parties forming a government or of states. ""a coalition of conservatives and disaffected Democrats"" synonyms: alliance, union, partnership, bloc, caucus"
tantalize	"/ˈtan(t)lˌīz/ v. torment or tease (someone) with the sight or promise of something that is unobtainable. ""such ambitious questions have long tantalized the world's best thinkers""   v. excite the senses or desires of (someone). ""she still tantalized him"" synonyms: tease, torment, torture, bait"
pesky	"/ˈpeskē/  adj. causing trouble; annoying. ""pesky mosquitoes"""
mosey	"/ˈmōzē/ v. walk or move in a leisurely manner. ""we decided to mosey on up to Montgomery""   n. a leisurely walk or drive."
outset	"/ˈoutˌset/ n. the start or beginning of something. ""a field of which he had known nothing at the outset and learned on the job"" synonyms: start, starting point, beginning, commencement, dawn, birth, origin, inception, opening, launch, inauguration ""at the outset, we had nothing but problems"" antonyms: end"
mesmerize	"/ˈmezməˌrīz/ v. hold the attention of (someone) to the exclusion of all else or so as to transfix them. ""she was mesmerized by the blue eyes that stared so intently into her own"" synonyms: enthrall, hold spellbound, entrance, dazzle, bedazzle, bewitch, charm, captivate, enchant, fascinate, transfix, grip, hypnotize ""the dancers mesmerized us"""
ominously	"/ˈämənəslē/ adv. in a way that suggests that something bad is going to happen. ""thunderclouds loomed ominously overhead"""
abate	"/əˈbāt/ v. (of something perceived as hostile, threatening, or negative) become less intense or widespread. ""the storm suddenly abated"" synonyms: subside, die down/away/out, lessen, ease (off), let up, decrease, diminish, moderate, decline, fade, dwindle, recede, tail off, peter out, taper off, wane, ebb, weaken, come to an end antonyms: intensify"
oust	"/oust/ v. drive out or expel (someone) from a position or place. ""he ousted a long-term incumbent by only 500 votes"" synonyms: drive out, expel, force out, throw out, remove (from office/power), eject, get rid of, depose, dethrone, topple, unseat, overthrow, bring down, overturn, dismiss, dislodge, displace"
crook	"/kro͝ok/ n. a person who is dishonest or a criminal. synonyms: criminal, lawbreaker, offender, villain, delinquent, felon, convict, malefactor, culprit, wrongdoer   v. bend (something, especially a finger as a signal). ""he crooked a finger for the waitress"" synonyms: cock, flex, bend, curve, curl"
stymie	"/ˈstīmē/ v. prevent or hinder the progress of. ""the changes must not be allowed to stymie new medical treatments"""
litany	"/ˈlitnē/ n. a tedious recital or repetitive series.  ""a litany of complaints"" synonyms: recital, recitation, enumeration"
watershed	"/ˈwôdərˌSHed/ n. an area or ridge of land that separates waters flowing to different rivers, basins, or seas. synonyms: divide ""the Mackenzie River watershed""   n. an event or period marking a turning point in a course of action or state of affairs. ""these works mark a watershed in the history of music"" synonyms: turning point, milestone, landmark ""a watershed in the party's history"""
rivet	"/ˈrivit/ v. join or fasten (plates of metal or other material) with a rivet or rivets. ""the linings are bonded, not riveted, to the brake shoes for longer wear""   v. hold (someone or something) fast so as to make them incapable of movement. ""the grip on her arm was firm enough to rivet her to the spot"" synonyms: fixed, rooted, frozen, unable to move   v. attract and completely engross (someone). ""he was riveted by the reports shown on television"" synonyms: fascinated, engrossed, gripped, captivated, enthralled, spellbound, mesmerized, transfixed antonyms: bored, boring"
imposter	"/imˈpästər/ n. a person who pretends to be someone else in order to deceive others, especially for fraudulent gain. synonyms: impersonator, masquerader, pretender, imitator, deceiver, hoaxer, trickster, fraudster, swindler; fake, fraud, sham, phony, scammer ""it turned out the meter reader was an impostor"""
silhouette	"/ˌsɪlʊˈɛt/ n. the dark shape and outline of someone or something visible against a lighter background, especially in dim light. synonyms: outline, contour(s), profile, form, shape, figure, shadow ""the silhouette of the dome"""
ridge	"/rij/ n. a long narrow hilltop, mountain range, or watershed. ""the northeast ridge of Everest"""
prick	"/prik/ v. make a small hole in (something) with a sharp point; pierce slightly. ""prick the potatoes with a fork"" synonyms: pierce, puncture, make/put a hole in, stab, perforate, nick, jab   v. cause mental or emotional discomfort to. ""her conscience pricked her as she told the lie"" synonyms: trouble, worry, distress, perturb, disturb, cause someone anguish, afflict, torment, plague, prey on, gnaw at"
flank	"/flaNGk/ v. be situated on each side of or on one side of (someone or something). ""the fireplace is flanked by built-in bookshelves"" synonyms: edge, bound, line, border, fringe ""the garden is flanked by two rivers""   v. attack down or from the sides, or rake with gunfire from the sides. ""a flanking attack from the northeast"""
dazzle	"/ˈdazəl/ v. (of a bright light) blind (a person) temporarily. ""she was dazzled by the headlights"" synonyms: blind temporarily, deprive of sight   n. brightness that confuses someone's vision temporarily. ""a dazzle of green and red spotlights"" synonyms: glare, brightness, brilliance, shimmer, radiance, shine ""dazzle can be a problem to sensitive eyes"""
anchor	"/ˈaNGkər/ v. secure firmly in position. ""with cords and pitons they anchored him to the rock"" synonyms: secure, fasten, attach, affix, fix ""the fish anchors itself to the coral""   v. provide with a firm basis or foundation. ""it is important that policy be anchored to some acceptable theoretical basis"""
hamper	"/ˈhampər/ v. hinder or impede the movement or progress of. ""their work is hampered by lack of funds"" synonyms: hinder, obstruct, impede, inhibit, retard, balk, thwart, foil, curb, delay, set back, slow down, hobble, hold up, interfere with"
respell	"/rēˈspel/ v. spell (a word) again or differently, especially phonetically in order to indicate its pronunciation. ""you are welcome to respell Pittsburgh as “Pittsberg” if you can't cope with correct pronunciation"""
martinet	/ˌmärtnˈet/ n. a strict disciplinarian, especially in the armed forces.
prurient	"/ˈpro͝orēənt/ adj. having or encouraging an excessive interest in sexual matters. ""she'd been the subject of much prurient curiosity"" synonyms: salacious, licentious, voyeuristic, lascivious, lecherous, lustful, lewd, libidinous, lubricious ""she was completely turned off by his prurient remarks"""
heredity	"/həˈredədē/ n. the passing on of physical or mental characteristics genetically from one generation to another. ""few scientists dispute that heredity can create a susceptibility to alcoholism"" synonyms: congenital traits, genetic makeup, genes ""he wears a Cossack tunic to emphasize his Russian heredity""   n. inheritance of title, office, or right. ""membership is largely based on heredity"""
aboveboard	"/əˈbəvˌbôrd/ adj. legitimate, honest, and open. ""certain transactions were not totally aboveboard"" synonyms: legitimate, lawful, legal, licit, honest, fair, open, frank, straight, overt, candid, forthright, unconcealed, trustworthy, unequivocal antonyms: dishonest, shady"
conceit	"/kənˈsēt/ n. excessive pride in oneself. ""he was puffed up with conceit"" synonyms: vanity, narcissism, conceitedness, egotism, self-admiration, self-regard antonyms: humility   n. a fanciful expression in writing or speech; an elaborate metaphor. ""the idea of the wind's singing is a prime romantic conceit"" synonyms: image, imagery, metaphor, simile, trope"
obnoxious	/əbˈnäkSHəs/ adj. extremely unpleasant. synonyms: unpleasant, disagreeable, nasty, distasteful, offensive, objectionable, unsavory, unpalatable, off-putting, awful, terrible, dreadful, frightful, revolting, repulsive, repellent, repugnant, disgusting, odious, vile, foul, abhorrent, loathsome, nauseating, sickening, hateful, insufferable, intolerable, detestable, abominable, despicable, contemptible antonyms: delightful, fragrant, pleasant, charming
ad nauseam	"adv. referring to something that has been done or repeated so often that it has become annoying or tiresome. ""the inherent risks of nuclear power have been debated ad nauseam"""
egotist	"/ˈēɡətəst/ n. a person who is excessively conceited or self-absorbed; self-seeker. ""he is a self-absorbed egotist"" synonyms: self-seeker, egocentric, egomaniac, narcissist"
mediocre	"/ˌmēdēˈōkər/ adj. of only moderate quality; not very good. ""a mediocre actor"" synonyms: ordinary, average, middling, middle-of-the-road, uninspired, undistinguished, indifferent, unexceptional, unexciting, unremarkable, run-of-the-mill, pedestrian, prosaic, lackluster, forgettable, amateur, amateurish"
wreck	"/rek/ v. cause the destruction of (a ship) by sinking or breaking up. ""he was drowned when his ship was wrecked"" synonyms: shipwreck, sink, capsize, run aground   v. spoil completely. ""an eye injury wrecked his chances of a professional career"" synonyms: ruin, spoil, disrupt, undo, put a stop to, frustrate, blight, crush, quash, dash, destroy, scotch, shatter, devastate, sabotage"
fend	"/fend/  v. look after and provide for oneself, without any help from others. ""you're old enough to fend for yourself"" synonyms: take care of oneself, look after oneself, provide for oneself, manage (by oneself), cope alone, stand on one's own two feet ""the children were forced to fend for themselves""   v. defend oneself from a blow, attack, or attacker. ""he fended off the awkward questions"" synonyms: ward off, head off, stave off, hold off, repel, repulse, resist, fight off, defend oneself against, prevent, stop, block, intercept, hold back ""they were unable to fend off the invasion"""
oligarch	/ˈäləˌɡärk/  n. a ruler in an oligarchy.   n. (especially in Russia) a very rich business leader with a great deal of political influence.
unravel	"/ˌənˈravəl/ v. undo (twisted, knitted, or woven threads). synonyms: untangle, disentangle, separate out, unwind, untwist, unsnarl, unthread ""he unraveled the strands"" antonyms: entangle   v. investigate and solve or explain (something complicated or puzzling). ""they were attempting to unravel the cause of death"" synonyms: solve, resolve, clear up, puzzle out, unscramble, get to the bottom of, explain, clarify, make head(s) or tail(s) of antonyms: complicate"
fumble	"/ˈfəmbəl/ v. use the hands clumsily while doing or handling something. ""she fumbled with the lock"" synonyms: grope, fish, search blindly, scrabble around ""she fumbled for her keys""   v. express oneself or deal with something clumsily or nervously. ""asked for explanations, Michael had fumbled for words"" synonyms: mess up, make a mess of, bungle, mismanage, mishandle, spoil"
surface	"/ˈsərfəs/ v. rise or come up to the surface of the water or the ground. ""he surfaced from his dive"" synonyms: come to the surface, come up, rise ""a submarine surfaced"" antonyms: dive   v. provide (something, especially a road) with a particular upper or outer layer. ""a small path surfaced with terra-cotta tiles"""
forgo	"/fôrˈɡō/ v. omit or decline to take (something pleasant or valuable); go without. ""she wanted to forgo the dessert and leave while they could"" synonyms: do without, go without, give up, waive, renounce, surrender, relinquish, part with, drop, sacrifice, abstain from, refrain from, eschew, cut out antonyms: keep"
embolden	"/əmˈbōldən/ v. give (someone) the courage or confidence to do something or to behave in a certain way. ""emboldened by robust passenger traffic, the airlines put through major fare increases"" synonyms: fortify, make brave/braver, encourage, hearten, strengthen, brace, stiffen the resolve of, lift the morale of"
berate	"/bəˈrāt/ v. scold or criticize (someone) angrily. ""his mother came out and berated me for raising my voice"" synonyms: rebuke, reprimand, reproach, reprove, admonish, remonstrate with, chastise, chide, upbraid, take to task, pull up, castigate, lambaste, read someone the Riot Act, give someone a piece of one's mind, go on at, haul over the coals, criticize, censure"
interrogate	/inˈterəˌɡāt/ v. ask questions of (someone, especially a suspect or a prisoner) closely, aggressively, or formally. synonyms: question, cross-question, cross-examine, quiz, catechize
sift	"/sift/ v. put (a fine, loose, or powdery substance) through a sieve so as to remove lumps or large particles. ""sift the flour into a large bowl"" synonyms: sieve, strain, screen, filter, riddle   v. examine (something) thoroughly so as to isolate that which is most important or useful. ""until we sift the evidence ourselves, we can't comment objectively"" synonyms: search through, look through, examine, inspect, scrutinize, pore over, investigate, analyze, dissect, review ""investigators are sifting through the wreckage"""
renounce	"/rəˈnouns/ v. formally declare one's abandonment of (a claim, right, or possession). ""Isabella offered to renounce her son's claim to the French crown"" synonyms: reject, refuse to abide by, repudiate ""Hungary renounced the agreement""   v. refuse to recognize or abide by any longer. ""these agreements were renounced after the fall of the czarist regime"""
incumbent	"/inˈkəmbənt/ adj. necessary for (someone) as a duty or responsibility. ""it is incumbent on all decent people to concentrate on destroying this evil"" synonyms: necessary for one to, essential that, required that, imperative that   adj. (of an official or regime) currently holding office. ""the incumbent president had been defeated"" synonyms: current, present, in office, in power; reigning ""the incumbent president""   n. the holder of an office or post. synonyms: holder, bearer, occupant ""the first incumbent of the post"""
contentious	"/kənˈten(t)SHəs/ adj. causing or likely to cause an argument; controversial. ""a contentious issue"" synonyms: controversial, disputable, debatable, disputed, open to debate, vexed"
tirade	"/ˈtīˌrād/ n. a long, angry speech of criticism or accusation. ""a tirade of abuse"" synonyms: diatribe, harangue, rant, onslaught, attack, polemic, denunciation, broadside, fulmination, condemnation, censure, invective, criticism, tongue-lashing"
unleash	"/ˌənˈlēSH/ v. release from a leash or restraint. ""we unleashed the dog and carried it down to our car"" synonyms: let loose, release, (set) free, unloose, untie, unchain ""we are asking that you not unleash your reporters until the children have been safely escorted to a secured location"""
havoc	"/ˈhavək/ n. widespread destruction. ""the hurricane ripped through Florida, causing havoc"" synonyms: devastation, destruction, damage, desolation, ruination, ruin   v. lay waste to; devastate"
deluge	"/ˈdelyo͞o(d)ZH/ v. inundate with a great quantity of something. ""he has been deluged with offers of work"" synonyms: inundate, overwhelm, overrun, flood, swamp, snow under, engulf, bombard ""we have been deluged with calls"""
precedent	"/ˈpresəd(ə)nt/ n. an earlier event or action that is regarded as an example or guide to be considered in subsequent similar circumstances. ""there are substantial precedents for using interactive media in training"" synonyms: model, exemplar, example, pattern, previous case, prior instance/example"
upend	"/ˌəpˈend/ v. set or turn (something) on its end or upside down. ""Kitty upended her purse, dumping out all her money"" synonyms: overturn, invert, turn over, turn upside down"
estranged	"/iˈstrānjd/ adj. (of a person) no longer close or affectionate to someone; alienated. ""Harriet felt more estranged from her daughter than ever"""
laxative	/ˈlaksədiv/ adj. (chiefly of a drug or medicine) tending to stimulate or facilitate evacuation of the bowels.
vie	"/vī/ v. compete eagerly with someone in order to do or achieve something. ""rival mobs vying for control of the liquor business"" synonyms: compete, contend, contest, struggle, fight, battle, cross swords, lock horns, buck, jockey"
laden	"/ˈlādn/  adj. heavily loaded or weighed down. ""a tree laden with apples"" synonyms: loaded, burdened, weighed down, encumbered, overloaded, piled high, fully charged"
swirl	"/swərl/ v. move in a twisting or spiraling pattern. ""the smoke was swirling around him"" synonyms: whirl, eddy, billow, spiral, circulate, revolve, spin, twist"
chasm	"/ˈkazəm/ n. a deep fissure in the earth, rock, or another surface. synonyms: gorge, abyss, canyon, ravine, gully, gulf, defile, couloir, crevasse, fissure, crevice, gulch, coulee ""a deep chasm""   n. a profound difference between people, viewpoints, feelings, etc. ""the chasm between rich and poor"" synonyms: breach, gulf, rift"
scion	"/ˈsīən/ n. a young shoot or twig of a plant, especially one cut for grafting or rooting. synonyms: cutting, graft, slip   n. a descendant of a notable family. ""he was the scion of a wealthy family"" synonyms: descendant"
divisive	"/dəˈvīsiv/ adj. ending to cause disagreement or hostility between people. ""the highly divisive issue of abortion"" synonyms: alienating, estranging, isolating, schismatic ""a divisive scheme to set his rivals against each other"" antonyms: unifying"
plumb	"/pləm/ v. measure (the depth of a body of water). ""at its deepest, the lake scarcely plumbed seven feet""   v. explore or experience fully or to extremes. ""she had plumbed the depths of depravity"" synonyms: explore, probe, delve into, search, examine, investigate, fathom, penetrate, understand ""an attempt to plumb her psyche"""
stick	"/stik/ v. push a sharp or pointed object into or through (something). ""he stuck his fork into the sausage"" synonyms: thrust, push, insert, jab, poke, dig, plunge   v. adhere or cling to a substance or surface. ""the plastic seats stuck to my skin"" synonyms: adhere, cling, be fixed, be glued ""the cup stuck to its saucer"""
pummel	"/ˈpəməl/ v. strike repeatedly, typically with the fists. ""Bob did not fight back for the fifteen minutes that the half-dozen men pummeled him"" synonyms: batter, pound, belabor, drub, beat"
onslaught	"/ˈônˌslôt/ n. a fierce or destructive attack. ""a series of onslaughts on the citadel"" synonyms: assault, attack, offensive, advance, charge, onrush, rush, storming, sortie, sally, raid, descent, incursion, invasion, foray, push, thrust, drive, blitz, bombardment, barrage, salvo ""the battalion's onslaught was relentless"""
tumultuous	"/t(y)o͞oˈməlCHo͞oəs/ adj. making a loud, confused noise; uproarious. ""tumultuous applause"" synonyms: loud, deafening, thunderous, uproarious, noisy, clamorous, vociferous, vehement antonyms: soft   adj. excited, confused, or disorderly. ""a tumultuous crowd"" synonyms: tempestuous, stormy, turbulent, passionate, intense, explosive, violent, volatile, full of ups and downs, roller-coaster antonyms: peaceful, uneventful, orderly"
unilateral	"/yo͞onəˈlatrəl/ adj. (of an action or decision) performed by or affecting only one person, group, or country involved in a particular situation, without the agreement of another or the others. ""unilateral nuclear disarmament"" synonyms: independent, autonomous, solitary, solo, go-it-alone, single-handed, self-determined, maverick, isolationist ""no one on this board has the authority to make a unilateral decision"""
repugnance	"/rəˈpəɡnəns/n. intense disgust. ""our growing repugnance at the bleeding carcasses"" synonyms: revulsion, disgust, abhorrence, repulsion, loathing, hatred, detestation, aversion, distaste, antipathy, contempt ""a look of repugnance"""
delegate	"/ˈdeləˌɡāt/ v. entrust (a task or responsibility) to another person, typically one who is less senior than oneself. ""he delegates routine tasks"" synonyms: assign, entrust, pass on, hand on/over, turn over, devolve, depute, transfer   v. send or authorize (someone) to do something as a representative. ""Edward was delegated to meet new arrivals"" synonyms: authorize, commission, depute, appoint, nominate, mandate, empower, charge, choose, designate, elect ""I don't recall which personnel were delegated to carry out the inspections"""
pretext	"/ˈprēˌtekst/ n. a reason given in justification of a course of action that is not the real reason. ""the rebels had the perfect pretext for making their move"" synonyms: excuse, false excuse, ostensible reason, alleged reason"
incarcerate	"/inˈkärsəˌrāt/ v. imprison or confine. ""many are incarcerated for property offenses"" synonyms: imprison, put in prison, send to prison, jail, lock up, put under lock and key, put away, intern, confine, detain, hold, immure, put in chains, hold prisoner, hold captive ""she returned to the site where she had been incarcerated nearly fifty years earlier"" antonyms: release, set free"
disavow	"/ˌdisəˈvou/ v. deny any responsibility or support for. ""he appears to be in denial of his own past, which he continually disavows"" synonyms: deny, disclaim, disown, wash one's hands of, repudiate, reject, renounce ""the chairman disavowed the press release"""
grapple	"/ˈɡrapəl/ v. engage in a close fight or struggle without weapons; wrestle. ""passersby grappled with the man after the knife attack"" synonyms: wrestle, struggle, tussle   v. struggle with or work hard to deal with or overcome (a difficulty or challenge). ""other towns are still grappling with the problem"" synonyms: tackle, confront, face, deal with, cope with, come to grips with"
oppressive	"/əˈpresiv/ adj. unjustly inflicting hardship and constraint, especially on a minority or other subordinate group. ""an oppressive dictatorship"" synonyms: harsh, cruel, brutal, repressive, tyrannical, tyrannous, iron-fisted, autocratic, dictatorial, despotic, undemocratic   adj. weighing heavily on the mind or spirits; causing depression or discomfort. ""a profound loneliness, an oppressive emptiness"" synonyms: overwhelming, overpowering, unbearable, unendurable, intolerable, burdensome ""an oppressive sense of despair"""
inflict	"/inˈflikt/ v. cause (something unpleasant or painful) to be suffered by someone or something. ""they inflicted serious injuries on three other men"" synonyms: administer to, deal out to, mete out to, serve out to, deliver to, apply to   v. impose something unwelcome on. ""she is wrong to inflict her beliefs on everyone else"" synonyms: impose, force, press, thrust, foist"
rake	"/rāk/  v. collect, gather, or move with a rake or similar implement. ""they started raking up hay"" synonyms: scrape up, collect, gather ""he raked the leaves into a pile""   n. a fashionable or wealthy man of dissolute or promiscuous habits. ""a merry Restoration rake"" synonyms: playboy, libertine, profligate"
macabre	"/məˈkäbrə/ adj. disturbing and horrifying because of involvement with or depiction of death and injury. ""a macabre series of murders"" synonyms: gruesome, grisly, grim, gory, morbid, ghastly, unearthly, grotesque, hideous, horrific, shocking, dreadful, loathsome, repugnant, repulsive, sickening"
subsidize	"/ˈsəbsəˌdīz/ v. support (an organization or activity) financially. ""it was beyond the power of a state to subsidize a business"" synonyms: give money to, pay a subsidy to, contribute to, invest in, sponsor, support, fund, finance, underwrite"
detractor	/dəˈtraktər/ n. a person who disparages someone or something. synonyms: critic, disparager, denigrator, deprecator, belittler, attacker, fault-finder, backbiter
defy	"/dəˈfī/ v. openly resist or refuse to obey. ""a woman who defies convention"" synonyms: disobey, go against, flout, fly in the face of, disregard, ignore   v. (of a thing) make (an action or quality) almost impossible. ""his actions defy belief"" synonyms: elude, escape, defeat"
indict	"/inˈdīt/ v. formally accuse of or charge with a serious crime. ""his former manager was indicted for fraud"" synonyms: charge with, accuse of, arraign for, take to court for, put on trial for, bring to trial for, prosecute for"
migraine	/ˈmīˌɡrān/ n. a recurrent throbbing headache that typically affects one side of the head and is often accompanied by nausea and disturbed vision.
throb	"/THräb/ v. beat or sound with a strong, regular rhythm; pulsate steadily. ""the war drums throbbed"" synonyms: pulsate, beat, pulse, palpitate, pound, thud, thump, drum, thrum, pitter-patter, go pit-a-pat, quiver   v. feel pain in a series of regular beats. ""her foot throbbed with pain"""
slip	"/slip/ n. an act of sliding unintentionally for a short distance. ""a single slip could send them plummeting down the mountainside"" synonyms: false step, misstep, slide, skid, fall, tumble   n. a minor or careless mistake. ""the judge made a slip in his summing up"" synonyms: mistake, error, blunder, gaffe"
plummet	"/ˈpləmət/ v. fall or drop straight down at high speed. ""a climber was killed when he plummeted 300 feet down an icy gully"" synonyms: plunge, nosedive, dive, drop, fall, descend, hurtle ""the plane plummeted to the ground"""
graft	"/ɡraft/ n. a shoot or twig inserted into a slit on the trunk or stem of a living plant, from which it receives sap. synonyms: scion, cutting, shoot, offshoot, bud, sprout, sprig ""grafts may die from lack of water""   v. practices, especially bribery, used to secure illicit gains in politics or business; corruption. ""sweeping measures to curb official graft"" synonyms: corruption, bribery, dishonesty, deceit, fraud, unlawful practices, illegal means, payola antonyms: honesty"
sap	"/sap/ n. the fluid, chiefly water with dissolved sugars and mineral salts, that circulates in the vascular system of a plant. synonyms: juice, secretion, fluid, liquid ""sap from the roots of trees""   v. gradually weaken or destroy (a person's strength or power). ""our energy is being sapped by bureaucrats and politicians"" synonyms: erode, wear away/down, deplete, reduce, lessen, attenuate, undermine, exhaust, drain, bleed ""they sapped the will of the troops"""
anecdote	"/ˈanəkˌdōt/  n. a short amusing or interesting story about a real incident or person. ""told anecdotes about his job"" synonyms: story, tale, narrative, sketch"
fissure	"/ˈfiSHər/ n. a long, narrow opening or line of breakage made by cracking or splitting, especially in rock or earth. synonyms: opening, crevice, crack, cleft, breach, crevasse, chasm   v. split or crack (something) to form a long narrow opening. ""the skin becomes dry, fissured, and cracked"""
depravity	"/dəˈpravədē/ n. moral corruption; wickedness. ""a tale of wickedness and depravity"" synonyms: corruption, vice, perversion, deviance, degeneracy, immorality, debauchery, dissipation, profligacy, licentiousness, lechery, prurience, obscenity, indecency"
quack	"/kwak/ n. a person who dishonestly claims to have special knowledge and skill in some field, typically in medicine. ""quack cures"" synonyms: swindler, charlatan, mountebank, trickster, fraud, fraudster, impostor, hoaxer"
nostrum	"/ˈnästrəm/ n. a medicine, especially one that is not considered effective, prepared by an unqualified person. synonyms: medicine, patent medicine, potion, elixir, panacea, cure-all, wonder drug, quack remedy ""they have to prove their nostrums work"""
sham	"/SHam/ adj. bogus; false. ""a clergyman who arranged a sham marriage"" synonyms: fake, pretended, feigned, simulated, false, artificial, bogus, insincere, contrived, affected, make-believe, fictitious antonyms: genuine   v. falsely present something as the truth. ""was he ill or was he shamming?"""
mnemonic	/nəˈmänik/ n. a device such as a pattern of letters, ideas, or associations that assists in remembering something.   adj. aiding or designed to aid the memory.
elude	"/ēˈlo͞od/ v. evade or escape from (a danger, enemy, or pursuer), typically in a skillful or cunning way. ""he managed to elude his pursuers by escaping into an alley"" synonyms: evade, avoid, get away from, dodge, escape from, run from, run away from"
clef	/klef/ n. any of several symbols placed at the left-hand end of a staff, indicating the pitch of the notes written on it.
bucolic	"/byo͞oˈkälik/ adj. relating to the pleasant aspects of the countryside and country life. ""the church is lovely for its bucolic setting"" synonyms: rustic, rural, pastoral, country, countryside"
smack	"/smak/ v. strike (someone or something), typically with the palm of the hand and as a punishment. ""Jessica smacked his face quite hard"" synonyms: slap, hit, strike, spank, cuff, clout, thump, punch, swat"
aberrant	/ˈabərənt/ adj. departing from an accepted standard. synonyms: deviant, deviating, divergent, abnormal, atypical, anomalous, irregular antonyms: normal, typical
abscond	"/əbˈskänd/ v. leave hurriedly and secretly, typically to avoid detection of or arrest for an unlawful action such as theft. ""she absconded with the remaining thousand dollars"" synonyms: run away, escape, bolt, flee, make off, take flight, take off, decamp"
alacrity	"/əˈlakrədē/ n. brisk and cheerful readiness. ""she accepted the invitation with alacrity"" synonyms: eagerness, willingness, readiness"
approbation	"/ˌaprəˈbāSHən/ n. approval or praise. ""the opera met with high approbation"" synonyms: approval, acceptance, endorsement, appreciation, respect, admiration, commendation, praise, congratulations, acclaim, esteem, applause antonyms: criticism"
arduous	"/ˈärjo͞oəs/ adj. involving or requiring strenuous effort; difficult and tiring. ""an arduous journey"" synonyms: onerous, taxing, difficult, hard, heavy, laborious, burdensome, strenuous, vigorous, back-breaking antonyms: easy"
assuage	"/əˈswāj/ v. make (an unpleasant feeling) less intense. ""the letter assuaged the fears of most members"" synonyms: relieve, ease, alleviate, soothe, mitigate, allay, palliate, abate, suppress, subdue antonyms: aggravate   v. satisfy (an appetite or desire). ""an opportunity occurred to assuage her desire for knowledge"" synonyms: satisfy, gratify, appease, fulfill, indulge, relieve, slake, sate, satiate, quench, check ""her hunger was quickly assuaged"" antonyms: intensify"
audacious	"/ôˈdāSHəs/ adj. showing a willingness to take surprisingly bold risks. ""a series of audacious takeovers"" synonyms: bold, daring, fearless, intrepid, brave, courageous, valiant, heroic, plucky antonyms: timid   adj. showing an impudent lack of respect. ""an audacious remark"" synonyms: impudent, impertinent, insolent, presumptuous, cheeky, irreverent, discourteous, disrespectful, insubordinate, ill-mannered, unmannerly, rude, brazen, shameless, pert, defiant, cocky, bold (as brass) antonyms: polite"
austere	"/ôˈstir/adj. severe or strict in manner, attitude, or appearance. ""an austere man, with a rigidly puritanical outlook"" synonyms: severe, stern, strict, harsh, steely, flinty, dour, grim, cold, frosty, unemotional, unfriendly antonyms: genial   adj. (of living conditions or a way of life) having no comforts or luxuries; harsh or ascetic. ""conditions in the prison could hardly be more austere"" synonyms: ascetic, self-denying, self-disciplined, nonindulgent, frugal, spartan, puritanical, abstemious, abstinent, self-sacrificing, strict, temperate, sober, simple, restrained antonyms: immoderate"
axiomatic	"/ˌaksēəˈmadik/ adj. self-evident or unquestionable. ""it is axiomatic that dividends have to be financed"""
canonical	"/kəˈnänək(ə)l/  adj. accepted as being accurate and authoritative. ""the canonical method of comparative linguistics"" synonyms: recognized, authoritative, authorized, accepted, sanctioned, approved, established, orthodox antonyms: unorthodox"
capricious	"/kəˈprēSHəs/ adj. given to sudden and unaccountable changes of mood or behavior. ""a capricious and often brutal administration"" synonyms: fickle, inconstant, changeable, variable, mercurial, volatile, unpredictable, temperamental antonyms: consistent"
chicanery	"/SHəˈkān(ə)rē/ n. the use of trickery to achieve a political, financial, or legal purpose. ""an underhanded person who schemes corruption and political chicanery behind closed doors"" synonyms: trickery, deception, deceit, deceitfulness, duplicity, dishonesty, deviousness, unscrupulousness, underhandedness, subterfuge, fraud, fraudulence, swindling, cheating, duping, hoodwinking"
connoisseur	"/ˌkänəˈsər/ n. an expert judge in matters of taste. ""a connoisseur of music"" synonyms: expert, authority, specialist, pundit, savant"
disabuse	"/ˌdisəˈbyo͞oz/ v. persuade (someone) that an idea or belief is mistaken. ""he quickly disabused me of my fanciful notions"" synonyms: disillusion about, undeceive about, set straight on/about, open someone's eyes about, correct on, enlighten on/about, disenchant about, shatter someone's illusions about ""it isn't easy to disabuse people of something they've been taught to believe in"""
discordant	"/ˌdisˈkôrd(ə)nt/ adj. disagreeing or incongruous. ""the principle of meritocracy is discordant with claims of inherited worth"" synonyms: different, in disagreement, at variance, at odds, divergent, discrepant, contradictory, contrary, in conflict, conflicting, opposite, opposed, opposing, clashing antonyms: harmonious, compatible   adj. (of sounds) harsh and jarring because of a lack of harmony. ""bombs, guns, and engines mingled in discordant sound"" synonyms: inharmonious, tuneless, off-key, dissonant, harsh, jarring, grating, jangling, jangly, strident, shrill, screeching, screechy, cacophonous antonyms: harmonious, dulcet"
disparate	"/ˈdispərət/ adj. essentially different in kind; not allowing comparison. ""they inhabit disparate worlds of thought"" synonyms: contrasting, different, differing, dissimilar, unalike, poles apart antonyms: homogeneous"
effrontery	"/əˈfrən(t)ərē/ n. insolent or impertinent behavior. ""one juror had the effrontery to challenge the coroner's decision"" synonyms: impudence, impertinence, cheek, insolence, cockiness, audacity, temerity, presumption, nerve, gall, shamelessness, impoliteness, disrespect, bad manners"
insolent	"/ˈinsələnt/ adj. showing a rude and arrogant lack of respect. ""she hated the insolent tone of his voice"" synonyms: impertinent, impudent, cheeky, ill-mannered, bad-mannered, unmannerly, rude, impolite, uncivil, discourteous, disrespectful, insubordinate, contemptuous antonyms: polite"
impertinent	"/imˈpərtnənt/ adj. not showing proper respect; rude. ""an impertinent question"" synonyms: rude, insolent, impolite, ill-mannered, bad-mannered, uncivil, discourteous, disrespectful antonyms: polite   adj.not pertinent to a particular matter; irrelevant. ""talk of “rhetoric” and “strategy” is impertinent to this process"""
coroner	/ˈkôrənər/ n. an official who investigates violent, sudden, or suspicious deaths.
eloquent	"/ˈeləkwənt/  adj. fluent or persuasive in speaking or writing. ""an eloquent speech"" synonyms: fluent, articulate, expressive, silver-tongued antonyms: inarticulate   adj. clearly expressing or indicating something. ""the touches of fatherliness are eloquent of the real man"" synonyms: expressive, meaningful, suggestive, revealing, telling, significant, indicative ""her glance was more eloquent than words"""
ennui	/änˈwē/ n. a feeling of listlessness and dissatisfaction arising from a lack of occupation or excitement. synonyms: boredom, tedium, listlessness, lethargy, lassitude, languor, weariness, enervation
erudite	/ˈer(y)əˌdīt/ adj. having or showing great knowledge or learning. synonyms: learned, scholarly, educated, knowledgeable, well read, well informed, intellectual antonyms: ignorant
exculpate	"/ˈekskəlˌpāt/ v. show or declare that (someone) is not guilty of wrongdoing. ""the article exculpated the mayor"""
exigent	"/ˈekzəjənt/ adj. pressing; demanding. ""the exigent demands of the music took a toll on her voice"""
toll	"/tōl/ n. a charge payable for permission to use a particular bridge or road. ""turnpike tolls"" synonyms: charge, fee, payment, levy, tariff, tax ""a highway toll"""
extemporaneous	"/ikˌstempəˈrānēəs/ adj. spoken or done without preparation. ""an extemporaneous speech"""
fulminate	"/ˈfo͝olməˌnāt/ v. express vehement protest. ""all fulminated against the new curriculum"" synonyms: protest, rail against, rage about, rant about, thunder about, storm about, vociferate against, declaim, inveigh against, speak out against, make/take a stand against"
ingenuous	/ˌinˈjenyo͞oəs/ adj. (of a person or action) innocent and unsuspecting. synonyms: naive, innocent, simple, childlike, trusting, unwary antonyms: artful
inure	"/əˈn(y)o͝or/ v. accustom (someone) to something, especially something unpleasant. ""these children have been inured to violence"" synonyms: harden, toughen, season, temper, condition antonyms: sensitize"
irascible	"/iˈrasəb(ə)l/ adj. having or showing a tendency to be easily angered. ""an irascible man"" synonyms: irritable, quick-tempered, short-tempered, hot-tempered, testy, touchy, tetchy, edgy, crabby, petulant, waspish, dyspeptic, snappish antonyms: even-tempered, good-natured"
laud	"/lôd/ v. praise (a person or their achievements) highly, especially in a public context. ""the obituary lauded him as a great statesman and soldier"" synonyms: praise, extol, hail, applaud, acclaim, commend, sing the praises of, speak highly of, pay tribute to, lionize, eulogize, rhapsodize over/about antonyms: criticize"
magnanimity	"/ˌmaɡnəˈnimədē/ n. the fact or condition of being magnanimous; generosity. ""both sides will have to show magnanimity"""
marital	"/ˈmerədl/ adj. relating to marriage or the relationship of a married couple. ""marital fidelity"" synonyms: matrimonial, married, wedded, conjugal, nuptial, marriage, wedding"
mundane	"/ˌmənˈdān/ adj. lacking interest or excitement; dull. ""seeking a way out of his mundane, humdrum existence"" synonyms: humdrum, dull, boring, tedious, monotonous, tiresome, wearisome, unexciting, uninteresting, uninvolving, uneventful, unvarying, unremarkable, repetitive, repetitious, routine, ordinary, everyday, day-to-day, run-of-the-mill, commonplace, workaday antonyms: extraordinary, imaginative   adj. of this earthly world rather than a heavenly or spiritual one. ""the boundaries of the mundane world"" synonyms: earthly, worldly, terrestrial, material, temporal, secular, areligious antonyms: spiritual"
nascent	"/ˈnāsənt/ adj. (especially of a process or organization) just coming into existence and beginning to display signs of future potential. ""the nascent space industry"" synonyms: just beginning, budding, developing, growing, embryonic, incipient, young, fledgling, evolving, emergent, dawning, burgeoning ""the nascent economic recovery"""
neologism	/nēˈäləˌjizəm/ n. a newly coined word or expression. synonyms: new word, new expression, new term, new phrase, coinage
noxious	"/ˈnäkSHəs/  adj. harmful, poisonous, or very unpleasant. ""they were overcome by the noxious fumes"" synonyms: poisonous, toxic, deadly, harmful, dangerous, pernicious, damaging, destructive antonyms: innocuous"
obtuse	"/əbˈt(y)o͞os/ adj. annoyingly insensitive or slow to understand. ""he wondered if the doctor was being deliberately obtuse"" synonyms: stupid, slow-witted, slow, dull-witted, unintelligent, ignorant, simpleminded, witless antonyms: clever, astute   adj. difficult to understand. ""some of the lyrics are a bit obtuse"""
obviate	"/ˈäbvēˌāt/ v. remove (a need or difficulty). ""the Venetian blinds obviated the need for curtains"" synonyms: preclude, prevent, remove, get rid of, do away with, get around, rule out, eliminate, make/render unnecessary ""our latest agreement obviates any further discussion of the matter""   v. avoid; prevent. ""a parachute can be used to obviate disaster"""
onerous	"/ˈōnərəs/ adj. (of a task, duty, or responsibility) involving an amount of effort and difficulty that is oppressively burdensome. ""he found his duties increasingly onerous"" synonyms: burdensome, arduous, strenuous, difficult, hard, severe, heavy, back-breaking, oppressive, weighty, uphill, challenging, formidable, laborious, Herculean, exhausting, tiring, taxing, demanding, punishing, grueling, exacting, wearing, wearisome, fatiguing antonyms: effortless, easy"
paean	"/ˈpēən/ n. a thing that expresses enthusiastic praise. ""his books are paeans to combat"" synonyms: song of praise, hymn, psalm, anthem, shout of praise, alleluia"
perfidy	"/ˈpərfədē/ n. deceitfulness; untrustworthiness. synonyms: treachery, duplicity, deceit, deceitfulness, disloyalty, infidelity, faithlessness, unfaithfulness, betrayal, treason, double-dealing, untrustworthiness, breach of trust ""the perfidy of her husband"""
perfunctory	"/pərˈfəNG(k)t(ə)rē/ adj. (of an action or gesture) carried out with a minimum of effort or reflection. ""he gave a perfunctory nod"" synonyms: cursory, desultory, quick, brief, hasty, hurried, rapid, fleeting, token, casual, superficial, careless, halfhearted, sketchy, mechanical, automatic, routine, offhand, inattentive ""a perfunctory review"" antonyms: careful, thorough"
perspicacious	"/ˌpərspəˈkāSHəs/ adj. having a ready insight into and understanding of things. ""it offers quite a few facts to the perspicacious reporter"" synonyms: discerning, shrewd, perceptive, astute, penetrating, observant, percipient, sharp-witted, sharp, smart, alert, clear-sighted, farsighted, acute, clever, canny, intelligent, insightful, wise, sage, sensitive, intuitive, understanding, aware, discriminating antonyms: stupid"
prattle	"/ˈpradl/ v. talk at length in a foolish or inconsequential way. ""she began to prattle on about her visit to the dentist"""
precipitate	"/prəˈsipəˌtāt/ v. cause (an event or situation, typically one that is bad or undesirable) to happen suddenly, unexpectedly, or prematurely. ""the incident precipitated a political crisis"" synonyms: bring about/on, cause, lead to, give rise to, instigate, trigger, spark, touch off, provoke, hasten, accelerate, expedite   adj. done, made, or acting suddenly or without careful consideration. ""I must apologize for my staff—their actions were precipitate"" synonyms: hasty, overhasty, rash, hurried, rushed"
predilection	"/ˌprēdlˈekSH(ə)n/ n. a preference or special liking for something; a bias in favor of something. ""my predilection for Asian food"" synonyms: liking, fondness, preference, partiality, taste, penchant, weakness, soft spot, fancy, inclination, leaning, bias, propensity, bent, proclivity, predisposition, appetite antonyms: dislike"
prescience	"/ˈpreSH(ē)əns/ n. the fact of knowing something before it takes place; foreknowledge. ""with extraordinary prescience, Jung actually predicted the Nazi eruption"" synonyms: farsightedness, foresight, foreknowledge"
prevaricate	"/prəˈverəˌkāt/ v. speak or act in an evasive way; mislead ""he seemed to prevaricate when journalists asked pointed questions"" synonyms: be evasive, beat around the bush, hedge, fence, shilly-shally, dodge (the issue), sidestep (the issue), equivocate, waffle"
qualm	"/kwäm/ n. an uneasy feeling of doubt, worry, or fear, especially about one's own conduct; a misgiving. ""military regimes generally have no qualms about controlling the press"" synonyms: misgivings, doubts, reservations, second thoughts, worries, concerns, anxiety"
recant	"/rəˈkant/ v. say that one no longer holds an opinion or belief, especially one considered heretical. ""heretics were burned if they would not recant"" synonyms: renounce, disavow, deny, repudiate, renege on"
refute	"/rəˈfyo͞ot/ v. prove (a statement or theory) to be wrong or false; disprove. ""these claims have not been convincingly refuted"" synonyms: disprove, prove wrong, prove false, debunk, discredit, invalidate"
relegate	"/ˈreləˌɡāt/ v. consign or dismiss to an inferior rank or position. ""they aim to prevent women from being relegated to a secondary role"" synonyms: downgrade, lower, lower in rank/status, put down, move down antonyms: upgrade"
reticent	"/ˈredəsənt/ adj. not revealing one's thoughts or feelings readily. ""she was extremely reticent about her personal affairs"" synonyms: reserved, withdrawn, introverted, inhibited, diffident, shy antonyms: expansive"
solicitous	"/səˈlisədəs/ adj. characterized by or showing interest or concern. ""she was always solicitous about the welfare of her students"" synonyms: concerned, caring, considerate, attentive, mindful, thoughtful, interested"
sporadic	"/spəˈradik/ adj. occurring at irregular intervals or only in a few places; scattered or isolated. ""sporadic fighting broke out"" synonyms: occasional, infrequent, irregular, periodic, scattered, patchy, isolated, odd antonyms: frequent, steady, continuous"
squander	"/ˈskwändər/ v. waste (something, especially money or time) in a reckless and foolish manner. ""entrepreneurs squander their profits on expensive cars"" synonyms: waste, misspend, misuse, throw away, fritter away, spend recklessly, spend unwisely, spend like water antonyms: manage, make good use of, save"
stupefy	"/ˈst(y)o͞opəˌfī/ v. make (someone) unable to think or feel properly. ""the offense of administering drugs to a woman with intent to stupefy her"" synonyms: stun, daze, knock unconscious, knock out, lay out    v. astonish and shock. ""the amount they spend on clothes would appall their parents and stupefy their grandparents"" synonyms: shock, stun, astound, dumbfound, overwhelm, stagger, amaze, astonish, take aback, take someone's breath away"
tortuous	"/ˈtôrCH(o͞o)əs/ adj. full of twists and turns. ""the route is remote and tortuous"" synonyms: twisting, twisty, twisting and turning, winding, windy, zigzag, sinuous, snaky, serpentine, meandering, circuitous antonyms: straight   adj. excessively lengthy and complex. ""a tortuous argument"" synonyms: convoluted, complicated, complex, labyrinthine, tangled, tangly, involved, confusing, difficult to follow, involuted, lengthy, overlong, circuitous antonyms: straightforward"
truculent	"/ˈtrəkyələnt/ adj. eager or quick to argue or fight; aggressively defiant. ""his days of truculent defiance were over"" synonyms: defiant, aggressive, antagonistic, combative, belligerent, pugnacious, confrontational, ready for a fight, obstreperous, argumentative, quarrelsome, uncooperative antonyms: cooperative, amiable"
veracity	"/vəˈrasədē/ n. conformity to facts; accuracy. ""officials expressed doubts concerning the veracity of the story"" synonyms: truthfulness, truth, accuracy, correctness, faithfulness, fidelity   n. habitual truthfulness. ""voters should be concerned about his veracity and character"""
virulent	"/ˈvir(y)ələnt/ adj. (of a disease or poison) extremely severe or harmful in its effects. synonyms: poisonous, toxic, venomous, noxious, deadly, lethal, fatal, dangerous, harmful, injurious, pernicious, damaging, destructive antonyms: harmless, nontoxic, noncontagious   adj. bitterly hostile. ""a virulent attack on liberalism"" synonyms: vitriolic, malicious, malevolent, hostile, spiteful, venomous, vicious, vindictive, bitter, sharp, rancorous, acrimonious, scathing, caustic, withering, nasty, savage, harsh antonyms: benevolent, amicable"
voracious	"/vəˈrāSHəs/ adj. wanting or devouring great quantities of food. ""he had a voracious appetite"" synonyms: insatiable, unquenchable, unappeasable, prodigious, uncontrollable, compulsive, gluttonous, greedy, rapacious"
ravenous	"/ˈrav(ə)nəs/ adj. extremely hungry. synonyms: very hungry, starving, famished ""I'm absolutely ravenous""   adj. (of hunger or need) very great; voracious. ""a ravenous appetite"" synonyms: voracious, insatiable"
waver	"/ˈwāvər/ v. shake with a quivering motion. ""the flame wavered in the draft"" synonyms: flicker, quiver, twinkle, glimmer, wink, blink   v. become unsteady or unreliable. ""his love for her had never wavered"" synonyms: falter, wobble, tremble, quaver, shake ""his voice wavered"""
endearing	"/inˈdiriNG/ adj. inspiring love or affection. ""an endearing little grin"" synonyms: lovable, adorable, cute, sweet, dear, delightful, lovely, charming, appealing, attractive, engaging, winning, captivating, enchanting, beguiling, winsome ""the baby ducklings are endearing"""
polymath	/ˈpälēˌmaTH/ n. a person of wide-ranging knowledge or learning.
compromise	"/ˈkämprəˌmīz/ n. an agreement or a settlement of a dispute that is reached by each side making concessions. ""an ability to listen to two sides in a dispute, and devise a compromise acceptable to both"" synonyms: agreement, understanding, settlement, terms, deal, trade-off, bargain   v. settle a dispute by mutual concession. ""in the end we compromised and deferred the issue"" synonyms: meet each other halfway, come to an understanding, make a deal, make concessions, find a happy medium, strike a balance; give and take   v. accept standards that are lower than is desirable. ""we were not prepared to compromise on safety"""
defer	"/dəˈfər/ v. put off (an action or event) to a later time; postpone. ""they deferred the decision until February"" synonyms: postpone, put off, delay, hold over, hold off (on), put back   v. submit humbly to (a person or a person's wishes or qualities). ""he deferred to Tim's superior knowledge"" synonyms: yield to, submit to, give way to, give in to, surrender to, capitulate to, acquiesce to"
conjecture	"/kənˈjekCHər/n. an opinion or conclusion formed on the basis of incomplete information. ""conjectures about the newcomer were many and varied"" synonyms: speculation, guesswork, surmise, fancy, presumption, assumption, theory, postulation, supposition   v. form an opinion or supposition about (something) on the basis of incomplete information. ""he conjectured the existence of an otherwise unknown feature"" synonyms: guess, speculate, surmise, infer, fancy, imagine, believe, think, suspect, presume, assume, hypothesize, suppose ""I conjectured that the game was over"""
bare	"/ber/ adj. (of a person or part of the body) not clothed or covered. ""he was bare from the waist up"" synonyms: naked, unclothed, undressed, uncovered, stripped, having nothing on, nude, in the nude, stark naked   v. uncover (a part of the body or other thing) and expose it to view. ""he bared his chest to show his scar"" synonyms: uncover, strip, lay bare, undress, unclothe, denude, expose"
pester	"/ˈpestər/ v. trouble or annoy (someone) with frequent or persistent requests or interruptions. ""she constantly pestered him with telephone calls"" synonyms: badger, hound, harass, plague, annoy, bother, trouble, keep after, persecute, torment, bedevil, harry, worry, beleaguer, nag, hassle, bug, devil, get on someone's case ""is there someplace I can study where no one will pester me?"""
leafy	"/ˈlēfē/ adj. having many leaves or much foliage. ""leafy bushes"""
bureaucrat	/ˈbyo͝orəˌkrat/ n. an official in a government department, in particular one perceived as being concerned with procedural correctness at the expense of people's needs. synonyms: official, officeholder, administrator, public servant, civil servant, functionary
solemn	"/ˈsäləm/ adj. formal and dignified. ""a solemn procession"" synonyms: dignified, ceremonious, ceremonial, stately, formal, courtly, majestic   adj. not cheerful or smiling; serious. ""Tim looked very solemn"" synonyms: serious, grave, sober, somber, unsmiling, stern, grim, dour, humorless"
joint	"/joint/ n. a point at which parts of an artificial structure are joined. synonyms: juncture, junction, join, intersection, confluence, nexus, link, linkage, connection   adj. shared, held, or made by two or more people, parties, or organizations together. ""the companies issued a joint statement"" synonyms: common, shared, communal, collective   v. provide or fasten (something) with joints. ""jointed lever arms"""
cadence	"/ˈkādns/ n. a modulation or inflection of the voice. ""the measured cadences that he employed in the Senate"" synonyms: intonation, modulation, lilt, accent, inflection"
strain	"/strān/ v. force (a part of one's body or oneself) to make a strenuous or unusually great effort. ""I stopped and listened, straining my ears for any sound""   v. pour (a mainly liquid substance) through a porous or perforated device or material in order to separate out any solid matter. ""strain the custard into a bowl"""
perforate	"/ˈpərfəˌrāt/ v. pierce and make a hole or holes in. ""the worms had perforated the pages of the book from cover to cover"" synonyms: pierce, penetrate, enter, puncture, prick, bore through, riddle ""a shell fragment perforated his left lung"""
aggravated	"/ˈaɡrəˌvādəd/ adj. (of an offense) made more serious by attendant circumstances (such as frame of mind). ""aggravated burglary"""
evangelical	"/ˌēvanˈjelək(ə)l/ adj. of or according to the teaching of the gospel or the Christian religion. synonyms: scriptural, biblical; fundamentalist ""evangelical Christianity"""
eerie	"/ˈirē/ adj. strange and frightening. ""an eerie green glow in the sky"" synonyms: uncanny, sinister, ghostly, unnatural, unearthly, supernatural, otherworldly"
dire	"/ˈdī(ə)r/ adj. (of a situation or event) extremely serious or urgent. ""dire consequences"" synonyms: terrible, dreadful, appalling, frightful, awful, horrible, atrocious, grim, unspeakable, distressing, harrowing, alarming, shocking, outrageous   adj. (of a warning or threat) presaging disaster. ""dire warnings about breathing the fumes"" synonyms: ominous, portentous, gloomy, doom and gloom, sinister; More antonyms: encouraging"
presage	"/ˈpresij/  v. (of an event) be a sign or warning that (something, typically something bad) will happen. ""the outcome of the game presaged the coming year"" synonyms: portend, augur, foreshadow, foretell, prophesy, be an omen of, herald, be a sign of, be the harbinger of, warn of, be a presage of, signal, bode, promise, threaten"
accentuate	"/əkˈsen(t)SHəˌwāt/ v. make more noticeable or prominent. ""his jacket unfortunately accentuated his paunch"" synonyms: focus attention on, draw attention to, point up, underline, underscore, accent, highlight, spotlight, foreground, feature, play up, bring to the fore, heighten, stress, emphasize ""a haircut that accentuates your cheekbones"""
mayhem	"/ˈmāˌhem/ n. violent or damaging disorder; chaos. ""complete mayhem broke out"" synonyms: chaos, disorder, havoc, bedlam, pandemonium, tumult, uproar, turmoil, commotion, all hell broken loose, maelstrom, trouble, disturbance, confusion, riot, anarchy, violence, insanity, madness ""no one would confess to how the mayhem started"""
tourniquet	/ˈtərnəkət/ n. a device for stopping the flow of blood through a vein or artery, typically by compressing a limb with a cord or tight bandage.
reintroduction	"/ˌrēintrəˈdəkSH(ə)n/ n. the action of bringing something, especially a law or system, into existence or effect again. ""a possible reintroduction of fees for students across the county"""
hypothermia	/ˌhīpəˈTHərmēə/  n. the condition of having an abnormally low body temperature, typically one that is dangerously low.
extremity	"/ikˈstremədē/ n. the furthest point or limit of something. ""the peninsula's western extremity"" synonyms: limit, end, edge, side, farthest point, boundary, border, frontier   n. the extreme degree or nature of something. ""the extremity of the violence concerns us"" synonyms: intensity, magnitude, acuteness, ferocity, vehemence, fierceness, violence, severity, seriousness, strength, power, powerfulness, vigor, force, forcefulness"
thaw	"/THô/ v. (of ice, snow, or another frozen substance, such as food) become liquid or soft as a result of warming. ""the river thawed and barges of food began to reach the capital"" synonyms: melt, unfreeze, soften, liquefy, dissolve   n. a period of warmer weather that thaws ice and snow. ""the thaw came yesterday afternoon"" synonyms: runoff, debacle, ice-out ""spring thaw"""
rupture	"/ˈrəpCHər/ v. (especially of a pipe, a vessel, or a bodily part such as an organ or membrane) break or burst suddenly. ""if the main artery ruptures he could die"" synonyms: break, fracture, crack, breach, burst, split, fissure   v. breach or disturb (a harmonious feeling or situation). ""once trust has been ruptured it can be difficult to regain"" synonyms: sever, break off, breach, disrupt ""the problem ruptured their relationships"""
jostle	"/ˈjäsəl/ v. push, elbow, or bump against (someone) roughly, typically in a crowd. ""passengers arriving and departing, jostling one another"" synonyms: bump into/against, knock into/against, bang into, collide with, plow into, jolt"
dilate	"/dīˈlāt,ˈdīˌlāt/ v. make or become wider, larger, or more open. ""her eyes dilated with horror"" synonyms: enlarge, widen, expand, distend ""her nostrils dilated"" antonyms: contract   v. speak or write at length on (a subject). synonyms: expatiate, expound, enlarge, elaborate, speak/write at length ""Diane dilated on the joys of her married life"" antonyms: contract"
maul	"/môl/ v. (of an animal) wound (a person or animal) by scratching and tearing. ""the herdsmen were mauled by lions"" synonyms: savage, attack, tear to pieces, lacerate, claw, scratch   v. treat (someone or something) roughly. synonyms: molest, feel, fondle, manhandle"
squeak	"/skwēk/ v. make a high-pitched sound or cry. ""he oiled the hinges to stop them from squeaking"""
accolade	"/ˈakəˌlād/n. an award or privilege granted as a special honor or as an acknowledgment of merit. ""the ultimate official accolade of a visit by the president"" synonyms: honor, privilege, award, gift, title   n. an expression of praise or admiration. synonyms: tribute, commendation, praise, testimonial, compliment, pat on the back"
adulation	"/ˌajəˈlāSH(ə)n/ n. obsequious flattery; excessive admiration or praise. ""he found it difficult to cope with the adulation of the fans"" synonyms: hero worship, worship, idolization, adoration, admiration, veneration, awe, devotion, glorification, praise, flattery, blandishments ""unspoiled by all the adulation he's received"""
aesthetic	"/esˈTHedik/ adj. concerned with beauty or the appreciation of beauty. ""the pictures give great aesthetic pleasure"""
ameliorate	"/əˈmēlyəˌrāt/ v. make (something bad or unsatisfactory) better. ""the reform did much to ameliorate living standards"" synonyms: improve, make better, better, make improvements to, enhance, help, benefit, boost, amend antonyms: worsen"
ascetic	"/əˈsedik/ adj. characterized by or suggesting the practice of severe self-discipline and abstention from all forms of indulgence, typically for religious reasons. ""an ascetic life of prayer, fasting, and manual labor"" synonyms: austere, self-denying, abstinent, abstemious, self-disciplined, self-abnegating antonyms: sybaritic"
abstention	"/əbˈsten(t)SH(ə)n/ n. an instance of declining to vote for or against a proposal or motion. ""a resolution passed by 126 votes to none, with six abstentions""   n. the fact or practice of restraining oneself from indulging in something; abstinence. ""alcohol consumption versus abstention"""
avarice	/ˈavərəs/ n. extreme greed for wealth or material gain. synonyms: greed, greediness, acquisitiveness, cupidity, covetousness, rapacity, materialism, mercenariness antonyms: generosity
axiom	"/ˈaksēəm/ n. a statement or proposition that is regarded as being established, accepted, or self-evidently true. ""the axiom that supply equals demand"" synonyms: accepted truth, general truth, dictum, truism, principle"
burgeon	"/ˈbərjən/ v. begin to grow or increase rapidly; flourish. ""manufacturers are keen to cash in on the burgeoning demand"" synonyms: flourish, thrive, prosper, improve, develop"
cacophony	"/kəˈkäfənē/ n. a harsh, discordant mixture of sounds. ""a cacophony of deafening alarm bells"" synonyms: din, racket, noise, clamor, discord, dissonance, discordance, uproar ""despite the cacophony, Rita slept on"""
canon	"/ˈkanən/ n. a general law, rule, principle, or criterion by which something is judged. ""the appointment violated the canons of fair play and equal opportunity"" synonyms: principle, rule, law, tenet, precept"
castigate	"/ˈkastəˌɡāt/ v. reprimand (someone) severely. ""he was castigated for not setting a good example"" synonyms: reprimand, rebuke, admonish, chastise, chide, censure, upbraid, reprove, reproach, scold, berate, take to task, lambaste, give someone a piece of one's mind antonyms: praise, commend"
catalyst	/ˈkad(ə)ləst/ n. a substance that increases the rate of a chemical reaction without itself undergoing any permanent chemical change.
caustic	"/ˈkôstik/ adj. able to burn or corrode organic tissue by chemical action. ""a caustic cleaner"" synonyms: corrosive, corroding, abrasive, mordant, acid   adj. sarcastic in a scathing and bitter way. ""the players were making caustic comments about the refereeing"" synonyms: sarcastic, cutting, biting, mordant, sharp, bitter, scathing, derisive, sardonic, ironic, scornful, trenchant, acerbic, abrasive, vitriolic, acidulous"
chary	"/ˈCHerē/ adj. cautiously or suspiciously reluctant to do something. ""most people are chary of allowing themselves to be photographed"" synonyms: wary, cautious, circumspect, heedful, careful, on one's guard"
cogent	/ˈkōjənt/ adj. (of an argument or case) clear, logical, and convincing. synonyms: convincing, compelling, strong, forceful, powerful, potent, weighty, impactful, effective
complaisant	"/kəmˈplāsənt/ adj. willing to please others; obliging; agreeable. ""when unharnessed, Northern dogs are peaceful and complaisant"" synonyms: willing, acquiescent, agreeable, amenable, cooperative, accommodating, obliging"
contrite	"/kənˈtrīt/ adj. feeling or expressing remorse or penitence; affected by guilt. ""a broken and a contrite heart"" synonyms: remorseful, repentant, penitent, regretful, sorry, apologetic, rueful, sheepish, hangdog, ashamed, chastened, shamefaced, conscience-stricken, guilt-ridden ""Joey was so contrite we had to conceal our amusement"""
culpable	"/ˈkəlpəb(ə)l/ adj. deserving blame. ""sometimes you're just as culpable when you watch something as when you actually participate"" synonyms: to blame, guilty, at fault, in the wrong, answerable, accountable, responsible, blameworthy, censurable ""I hold you personally culpable"" antonyms: innocent"
cupidity	"/kyo͞oˈpidədē/ n. greed for money or possessions. synonyms: greed, avarice, avariciousness, acquisitiveness, covetousness, rapacity, materialism, Mammonism ""he did not really see her cupidity until they'd been married for several years"" antonyms: generosity"
dearth	"/dərTH/ n. a scarcity or lack of something. ""there is a dearth of evidence"" synonyms: lack, scarcity, shortage, shortfall, want, deficiency, insufficiency, inadequacy, paucity, sparseness, scantiness, rareness; absence ""a dearth of trained specialists"" antonyms: surfeit"
demur	"/dəˈmər/ v. raise doubts or objections or show reluctance. ""normally she would have accepted the challenge, but she demurred"" synonyms: object, take exception, take issue, protest, cavil, dissent   n. the action or process of objecting to or hesitating over something. ""they accepted this ruling without demur"" synonyms: objection, protest, protestation, complaint, dispute, dissent, carping, cavilling, recalcitrance, opposition, resistance"
didactic	"/dīˈdaktik/ adj. intended to teach, particularly in having moral instruction as an ulterior motive. ""a didactic novel that set out to expose social injustice"" synonyms: instructive, instructional, educational, educative, informative, informational, doctrinal, preceptive, teaching, pedagogic, academic, scholastic, tuitional   adj. in the manner of a teacher, particularly so as to treat someone in a patronizing way. ""slow-paced, didactic lecturing"""
discretion	"/dəˈskreSH(ə)n/ n. the quality of behaving or speaking in such a way as to avoid causing offense or revealing private information. ""she knew she could rely on his discretion"" synonyms: circumspection, carefulness, caution, wariness, chariness, guardedness   n. the freedom to decide what should be done in a particular situation. ""it is up to local authorities to use their discretion in setting the charges"" synonyms: choice, option, preference, disposition, volition"
disinterested	"/disˈintrəstəd/ adj. not influenced by considerations of personal advantage. ""a banker is under an obligation to give disinterested advice"" synonyms: unbiased, unprejudiced, impartial, neutral, nonpartisan, detached, uninvolved, objective, dispassionate, impersonal, clinical   adj. having or feeling no interest in something. ""her father was so disinterested in her progress that he only visited the school once"" synonyms: uninterested, indifferent, incurious, uncurious, unconcerned, unmoved, unresponsive, impassive, passive, detached, unenthusiastic, lukewarm, bored, apathetic ""he looked at her with disinterested eyes"""
dogmatic	"/dôɡˈmadik/ adj. inclined to lay down principles as incontrovertibly true. ""he gives his opinion without trying to be dogmatic"" synonyms: opinionated, peremptory, assertive, insistent, emphatic, adamant, doctrinaire, authoritarian, imperious, dictatorial, uncompromising, unyielding, inflexible, rigid ""your being so dogmatic does not attract me to your religious philosophy"""
ebullience	"/iˈbo͝olyəns/ adj. the quality of being cheerful and full of energy; exuberance. ""the ebullience of happy children"" synonyms: exuberance, buoyancy, cheerfulness, cheeriness, merriment, jollity, sunniness, jauntiness, lightheartedness, high spirits, elation, euphoria, jubilation"
eclectic	"/əˈklektik/ adj. deriving ideas, style, or taste from a broad and diverse range of sources. ""her musical tastes are eclectic"" synonyms: wide-ranging, broad-based, extensive, comprehensive, encyclopedic"
elegy	/ˈeləjē/ n. a poem of serious reflection, typically a lament for the dead. synonyms: lament, requiem, threnody, dirge
emollient	"/əˈmälyənt/ adj. having the quality of softening or soothing the skin. ""an emollient cream"" synonyms: moisturizing, soothing, softening ""a rich emollient shampoo""   n. a preparation that softens the skin. ""formulated with rich emollients"" synonyms: moisturizer, cream, lotion, oil, rub, salve, unguent, balm ""she applied an emollient"""
empirical	"/əmˈpirik(ə)l/ adj. based on, concerned with, or verifiable by observation or experience rather than theory or pure logic. ""they provided considerable empirical evidence to support their argument"" synonyms: experiential, practical, heuristic, firsthand, hands-on antonyms: theoretical"
ephemeral	"/əˈfem(ə)rəl/ adj. lasting for a very short time. ""fashions are ephemeral"" synonyms: transitory, transient, fleeting, passing, short-lived, momentary, brief, short antonyms: permanent"
esoteric	"/ˌesəˈterik/ adj. intended for or likely to be understood by only a small number of people with a specialized knowledge or interest. ""esoteric philosophical debates"" synonyms: abstruse, obscure, arcane, recherché, rarefied, recondite, abstract"
eulogy	"/ˈyo͞oləjē/ n. a speech or piece of writing that praises someone or something highly, typically someone who has just died. ""his good friend delivered a brief eulogy"" synonyms: accolade, panegyric, paean, tribute, compliment, commendation antonyms: attack"
exonerate	"/iɡˈzänəˌrāt/ v. (especially of an official body) absolve (someone) from blame for a fault or wrongdoing, especially after due consideration of the case. ""the court-martial exonerated me"" synonyms: absolve, clear, acquit, find innocent, discharge ""the inquiry exonerated them"" antonyms: charge, convict   v. release someone from (a duty or obligation). synonyms: release, discharge, free, liberate antonyms: hold to"
facetious	/fəˈsēSHəs/ adj. treating serious issues with deliberately inappropriate humor; flippant. synonyms: flippant, flip, glib, frivolous, tongue-in-cheek, ironic, sardonic, joking, jokey, jocular, playful, sportive, teasing, mischievous antonyms: serious
fallacy	"/ˈfaləsē/ n. a mistaken belief, especially one based on unsound argument. ""the notion that the camera never lies is a fallacy"" synonyms: misconception, misbelief, delusion, mistaken impression, error, misapprehension, misinterpretation, misconstruction, mistake"
furtive	"/ˈfərdiv/ adj. attempting to avoid notice or attention, typically because of guilt or a belief that discovery would lead to trouble; secretive. ""they spent a furtive day together"" synonyms: secretive, secret, surreptitious, clandestine, hidden, covert, conspiratorial, cloak-and-dagger, backroom, backstairs, sly, sneaky, under-the-table antonyms: open"
gregarious	"/ɡrəˈɡerēəs/ adj. (of a person) fond of company; sociable. ""he was a popular and gregarious man"" synonyms: sociable, company-loving, convivial, companionable, outgoing, friendly, affable, amiable, genial, warm, comradely ""he was fun-loving and gregarious"" antonyms: unsociable"
harangue	"/həˈraNG/ n. a lengthy and aggressive speech. synonyms: tirade, diatribe, lecture, polemic, rant, fulmination, broadside, attack, onslaught   v. lecture (someone) at length in an aggressive and critical manner. ""the kind of guy who harangued total strangers about PCB levels in whitefish"" synonyms: rant at, hold forth to, lecture, shout at"
heretical	"/həˈredik(ə)l/ adj. believing in or practicing religious heresy. ""heretical beliefs""   adj. holding an opinion at odds with what is generally accepted. ""I feel a bit heretical saying this, but I think the film has too much action"""
hyperbole	/hīˈpərbəlē/ n. exaggerated statements or claims not meant to be taken literally. synonyms: exaggeration, overstatement, magnification, embroidery, embellishment, excess, overkill, rhetoric antonyms: understatement
impecunious	"/ˌimpəˈkyo͞onēəs/ adj. having little or no money. ""a titled but impecunious family"" synonyms: penniless, poor, impoverished, indigent, insolvent, hard up, poverty-stricken, needy, destitute antonyms: wealthy"
incipient	"/inˈsipēənt/ adj. in an initial stage; beginning to happen or develop. ""he could feel incipient anger building up""   adj. (of a person) developing into a specified type or role. ""we seemed more like friends than incipient lovers"" synonyms: developing, growing, emerging, emergent, dawning, just beginning, inceptive, initial, inchoate antonyms: full-blown"
inert	"/iˈnərt/ adj. lacking the ability or strength to move. ""she lay inert in her bed"" synonyms: unmoving, motionless, immobile, inanimate, still, stationary, static antonyms: active   adj. lacking vigor. ""an inert political system"""
innocuous	"/iˈnäkyo͞oəs/ adj. not harmful or offensive. ""it was an innocuous question"" synonyms: harmless, safe, nondangerous, nonpoisonous, nontoxic, nonirritant, noninjurious, innocent"
intransigent	"/inˈtransəjənt/ adj. unwilling or refusing to change one's views or to agree about something. synonyms: uncompromising, inflexible, unbending, unyielding, diehard, unshakable, unwavering, resolute, rigid, unaccommodating, uncooperative, stubborn, obstinate, obdurate, pigheaded, single-minded, iron-willed, stiff-necked ""the regime remained intransigent in its opposition to wider participation in the political process"" antonyms: compliant"
inveigle	"/inˈvāɡəl/ v. persuade (someone) to do something by means of deception or flattery. ""we cannot inveigle him into putting pen to paper"" synonyms: entice, tempt, lure, seduce, beguile"
morose	/məˈrōs/ adj. sullen and ill-tempered. synonyms: sullen, sulky, gloomy, bad-tempered, ill-tempered, dour, surly, sour, glum, moody, ill-humored, melancholy, melancholic, brooding, broody, doleful, miserable, depressed, dejected, despondent, downcast, unhappy, low, down, grumpy, irritable, churlish, cantankerous, crotchety, cross, crabby, cranky, grouchy, testy, snappish, peevish, crusty antonyms: cheerful
odious	/ˈōdēəs/ adj. extremely unpleasant; repulsive. synonyms: revolting, repulsive, repellent, repugnant, disgusting, offensive, objectionable, vile, foul, abhorrent, loathsome, nauseating, sickening, hateful, detestable, execrable, abominable, monstrous, appalling, reprehensible, deplorable, insufferable, intolerable, despicable, contemptible, unspeakable, atrocious, awful, terrible, dreadful, frightful, obnoxious, unsavory, unpalatable, unpleasant, disagreeable, nasty, noisome, distasteful antonyms: delightful, pleasant
penurious	"/pəˈn(y)o͝orēəs/ adj. extremely poor; poverty-stricken. ""a penurious old tramp"" synonyms: poor, poor as a church mouse, poverty-stricken, destitute, necessitous, impecunious, impoverished, indigent, needy, in need/want, badly off, in reduced/straitened circumstances, hard up, unable to make ends meet, penniless, without a cent (to one's name), without a sou antonyms: wealthy   adj. parsimonious; mean. ""he was generous and hospitable in contrast to his stingy and penurious wife"" synonyms: mean, miserly, niggardly, parsimonious, penny-pinching, close-fisted, Scroogelike antonyms: generous"
pernicious	"/pərˈniSHəs/ adj. having a harmful effect, especially in a gradual or subtle way. ""the pernicious influences of the mass media"" synonyms: harmful, damaging, destructive, injurious, hurtful, detrimental, deleterious, dangerous, adverse, inimical, unhealthy, unfavorable, bad, evil, baleful, wicked, malign, malevolent, malignant, noxious, poisonous, corrupting ""a pernicious influence on society"" antonyms: beneficial"
peruse	"/pəˈro͞oz/ v. read (something), typically in a thorough or careful way. ""he has spent countless hours in libraries perusing art history books and catalogues""   v. examine carefully or at length. ""Laura perused a Caravaggio"" synonyms: read, study, scrutinize, inspect, examine, wade through, look through"
pious	"/ˈpīəs/ adj. devoutly religious. synonyms: religious, devout, God-fearing, churchgoing, spiritual, prayerful, holy, godly, saintly, dedicated, reverent, dutiful, righteous ""a pious family"" antonyms: irreligious   adj. making a hypocritical display of virtue. ""there'll be no pious words said over her"" synonyms: sanctimonious, hypocritical, insincere, self-righteous, holier-than-thou, pietistic, churchy ""pious platitudes"" antonyms: sincere"
precursor	"/prēˈkərsər/n. a person or thing that comes before another of the same kind; a forerunner. ""a three-stringed precursor of the violin"" synonyms: forerunner, predecessor, forefather, father, antecedent, ancestor, forebear"
preen	"/prēn/ v. (of a person) devote effort to making oneself look attractive and then admire one's appearance. ""adolescents preening in their bedroom mirrors"" synonyms: admire oneself, primp oneself, groom oneself, spruce oneself up"
prodigious	"/prəˈdijəs/ adj. remarkably or impressively great in extent, size, or degree. ""the stove consumed a prodigious amount of fuel"" synonyms: enormous, huge, colossal, immense, vast, great, massive, gigantic, mammoth, tremendous, inordinate, monumental antonyms: small, unexceptional"
prolific	"/prəˈlifik/ adj. present in large numbers or quantities; plentiful. ""mahogany was once prolific in the tropical forests"" synonyms: plentiful, abundant, bountiful, profuse, copious, luxuriant, rich, lush   adj. (of a plant, animal, or person) producing much fruit or foliage or many offspring. ""in captivity, tigers are prolific breeders"" synonyms: productive, creative, inventive, fertile ""a prolific composer"""
putrefy	"/ˈpyo͞otrəˌfī/ v. (of a body or other organic matter) decay or rot and produce a fetid smell. synonyms: decay, rot, decompose, go bad, go off, spoil, fester, perish, deteriorate; molder ""the carcasses will putrefy quickly in this heat"""
quaff	/kwäf/ v. drink (something, especially an alcoholic drink) heartily. synonyms: drink, swallow, gulp (down), guzzle, slurp, down, empty
redoubtable	"/rəˈdoudəb(ə)l/ adj. (of a person) formidable, especially as an opponent. ""he was a redoubtable debater"" synonyms: formidable, awe-inspiring, fearsome, daunting"
sanction	"/ˈsaNG(k)SH(ə)n/ v. give official permission or approval for (an action). ""only two treatments have been sanctioned by the Food and Drug Administration"" synonyms: authorize, permit, allow, warrant, accredit, license, endorse, approve, accept, back, support ""the rally was sanctioned by the government"" antonyms: prohibit   v. impose a sanction or penalty on. synonyms: punish, discipline someone for ""the penalties available to sanction crime"""
stoic	"/ˈstōik/ adj. enduring pain and hardship without showing one's feelings or complaining. ""he taught a stoical acceptance of suffering"" synonyms: long-suffering, uncomplaining, patient, forbearing, accepting, tolerant, resigned, phlegmatic, philosophical ""I had no intention of spending my life as the stoic spouse to that autocratic buffoon"" antonyms: complaining, intolerant"
supplant	"/səˈplant/v. supersede and replace. ""another discovery could supplant the original finding"" synonyms: replace, supersede, displace, take over from, substitute for, override"
torpid	"/ˈtôrpəd/ adj. mentally or physically inactive; lethargic. ""we sat around in a torpid state"" synonyms: lethargic, sluggish, inert, inactive, slow, lifeless antonyms: energetic"
ubiquitous	"/yo͞oˈbikwədəs/ adj. present, appearing, or found everywhere. ""his ubiquitous influence was felt by all the family"" synonyms: omnipresent, ever-present, everywhere, all over the place, pervasive, universal, worldwide, global antonyms: rare"
urbane	/ərˈbān/ adj. (of a person, especially a man) suave, courteous, and refined in manner. synonyms: suave, sophisticated, debonair, worldly, cultivated, cultured, civilized, cosmopolitan antonyms: uncouth, unsophisticated
vilify	"/ˈviləˌfī/ v. speak or write about in an abusively disparaging manner. ""he has been vilified in the press"" synonyms: disparage, denigrate, defame, run down, revile, abuse, speak ill of, criticize, condemn, denounce antonyms: commend"
concede	"/kənˈsēd/ v. admit that something is true or valid after first denying or resisting it. ""I had to concede that I'd overreacted"" synonyms: admit, acknowledge, accept, allow, grant, recognize, own, confess; agree   v. surrender or yield (something that one possesses). ""to concede all the territory he'd won"" synonyms: surrender, yield, give up, relinquish, cede, hand over ""he conceded the Auvergne to the king"""
expend	"/ikˈspend/ v. spend or use up (a resource such as money, time, or energy). ""we do not need to expend energy working on our marriage"" synonyms: spend, pay out, disburse, dole out, get through, waste, fritter (away), dissipate antonyms: save, conserve"
speck	"/spek/ n. a tiny spot. ""the figure in the distance had become a mere speck"" synonyms: dot, pinprick, spot, fleck, speckle ""a mere speck in the distance""   n. a small particle of a substance. ""specks of dust"" synonyms: particle, grain, atom, molecule"
splotch	"/spläCH/ n. a daub, blot, or smear of something, typically a liquid. ""a splotch of red in a larger area of yellow""   v. make a daub, blot, or smear on. ""a rag splotched with grease"""
conducive	"/kənˈd(y)o͞osiv/ adj. making a certain situation or outcome likely or possible. ""the harsh lights and cameras were hardly conducive to a relaxed atmosphere"" synonyms: favorable to, beneficial to, advantageous to, opportune to, propitious to, encouraging to, promising to, convenient for, good for, helpful, instrumental in, productive of, useful for ""an environment that is conducive to learning"" antonyms: unfavorable"
exude	"/iɡˈzo͞od/ v. discharge (moisture or a smell) slowly and steadily. ""the beetle exudes a caustic liquid"" synonyms: give off/out, discharge, release, emit, issue ""slime exudes from the fungus""   v. (of a person) display (an emotion or quality) strongly and openly. ""Mr. Thomas exuded friendship and goodwill"" synonyms: emanate, radiate, ooze, emit"
poignant	"/ˈpoin(y)ənt/ adj. evoking a keen sense of sadness or regret. ""a poignant reminder of the passing of time"" synonyms: touching, moving, sad, affecting, pitiful, piteous, pathetic, sorrowful, mournful, wretched, miserable, distressing, heart-rending, tearjerking, plaintive, tragic ""they read aloud the poignant letters written by the victims' children"""
provision	"/prəˈviZHən/ n. the action of providing or supplying something for use. ""new contracts for the provision of services"" synonyms: supplying, supply, providing, giving, presentation, donation   n. an amount or thing supplied or provided. ""low levels of social provision"" synonyms: facilities, services, amenities, resource(s), arrangements   v. supply with food, drink, or equipment, especially for a journey. ""civilian contractors were responsible for provisioning these armies"""
wield	"/wēld/ v. hold and use (a weapon or tool). ""a masked raider wielding a handgun"" synonyms: brandish, flourish, wave, swing   v. have and be able to use (power or influence). ""faction leaders wielded enormous influence within the party"" synonyms: exercise, exert, hold, maintain, command, control ""he has wielded power since 1972"""
convoke	"/kənˈvōk/ v. call together or summon (an assembly or meeting). ""she sent messages convoking a Council of Ministers"" synonyms: convene, summon, call together, call ""she claimed to have the power to convoke the spirits of the dead"""
implore	"/imˈplôr/ v. beg someone earnestly or desperately to do something. ""he implored her to change her mind"" synonyms: plead with, beg, entreat, beseech, appeal to, ask, request, call on"
maim	"/mām/ v. wound or injure (someone) so that part of the body is permanently damaged. ""100,000 soldiers were killed or maimed"" synonyms: injure, wound, cripple, disable, incapacitate, impair, mar, mutilate, lacerate, disfigure, deform, mangle ""a dog maimed by a coyote"""
enjoin	"/inˈjoin/ v. instruct or urge (someone) to do something. ""the code enjoined members to trade fairly"" synonyms: urge, encourage, admonish, press   v. prescribe (an action or attitude) to be performed or adopted. ""the charitable deeds enjoined on him by religion"""
lodge	"/läj/ n. a small house at the gates of a park or in the grounds of a large house, typically occupied by a gatekeeper, gardener, or other employee. synonyms: gatehouse, cottage ""the porter's lodge""   v. present (a complaint, appeal, claim, etc.) formally to the proper authorities. ""he has 28 days in which to lodge an appeal"" synonyms: submit, register, enter, put forward, advance, lay, present, tender, proffer, put on record, record, file ""we lodged a complaint""   v. make or become firmly fixed or embedded in a particular place. ""they had to remove a bullet lodged near his spine"" synonyms: become fixed, embed itself, become embedded, become implanted, get/become stuck, stick, catch, become caught, wedge ""the bullet lodged in his back"""
forsake	"/fərˈsāk/ v. abandon (someone or something). ""he would never forsake Tara"" synonyms: abandon, desert, leave, leave high and dry, turn one's back on, cast aside, break (up) with antonyms: return to, stay with   v. renounce or give up (something valued or pleasant). ""I won't forsake my vegetarian principles"" synonyms: renounce, abandon, relinquish, dispense with, disclaim, disown, disavow, discard, wash one's hands of antonyms: keep (to)"
knack	"/nak/ n. an acquired or natural skill at performing a task. ""she got the knack of it in the end"" synonyms: gift, talent, flair, genius, instinct, faculty, ability, capability, capacity, aptitude, aptness, bent, forte, facility   n. a tendency to do something. ""the band has a knack of warping classic soul songs"" synonyms: tendency to, propensity for, habit of, proneness to, aptness to, bent for, liability to, predisposition to, inclination to ""his knack of getting injured at the wrong time"""
subdue	"/səbˈd(y)o͞o/ v. overcome, quieten, or bring under control (a feeling or person). ""she managed to subdue an instinct to applaud"" synonyms: conquer, defeat, vanquish, overcome, overwhelm, crush, quash, beat, trounce, subjugate, suppress, bring someone to their knees"
subjugate	"/ˈsəbjəˌɡāt/ v. bring under domination or control, especially by conquest. ""the invaders had soon subjugated most of the native population"" synonyms: conquer, vanquish, defeat, crush, quash, bring someone to their knees, enslave, subdue, suppress ""the Normans had subjugated most of Ireland's Gaelic population"" antonyms: liberate"
profuse	"/prəˈfyo͞os/ adj. (especially of something offered or discharged) exuberantly plentiful; abundant. ""I offered my profuse apologies"" synonyms: copious, prolific, abundant, liberal, unstinting, fulsome, effusive, extravagant, lavish, gushing"
clout	"/klout/ n. influence or power, especially in politics or business. ""I knew he carried a lot of clout"" synonyms: influence, power, weight, sway, leverage, control, say   v. hit hard with the hand or a hard object. ""I clouted him on the head"" synonyms: hit, strike, punch, smack, slap, cuff, thump, buffet"
solicit	"/səˈlisit/ v. ask for or try to obtain (something) from someone. ""he called a meeting to solicit their views"" synonyms: ask for, request, seek, apply for, put in for, call for, press for, beg, plead for"
creep	"/krēp/v. move slowly and carefully, especially in order to avoid being heard or noticed. ""he crept downstairs, hardly making any noise"" synonyms: tiptoe, steal, sneak, slip, slink, sidle, pad, edge, inch   v. (of an unwanted and negative characteristic or fact) occur or develop gradually and almost imperceptibly. ""errors crept into his game"""
gleefully	"/ˈɡlēfəlē/ adv. in an exuberantly or triumphantly joyful manner. ""audiences laughed gleefully"""
schlep	"/SHlep/ v. haul or carry (something heavy or awkward). ""she schlepped her groceries home""   v. (of a person) go or move reluctantly or with effort. ""I would have preferred not to schlep all the way over there to run an errand"""
rampage	"/ˈramˌpāj/ v. (especially of a large group of people) rush around in a violent and uncontrollable manner. ""several thousand demonstrators rampaged through the city"" synonyms: riot, run riot, go on the rampage, run amok, go berserk   n. a period of violent and uncontrollable behavior, typically involving a large group of people. ""thugs went on a rampage and wrecked a classroom"""
bog	"/bôɡ/ v. cause (a vehicle, person, or animal) to become stuck in mud or wet ground. ""the car became bogged down on the beach road""   v. (of a person or process) be unable to make progress. ""you must not get bogged down in detail"""
reminiscent	"/ˌreməˈnis(ə)nt/ adj. tending to remind one of something. ""the sights were reminiscent of my childhood""   adj. suggesting something by resemblance. ""her suit was vaguely reminiscent of military dress"" synonyms: similar to, comparable with, evocative of, suggestive of, redolent of ""the smell of fresh apple pies was reminiscent of the aromas from Gramma's kitchen in Middlefield"""
surveil	"/sərˈvāl/ v. keep (a person or place) under surveillance. ""he deployed FBI agents to surveil the offices of those companies"""
plume	"/plo͞om/ n. a long, soft feather or arrangement of feathers used by a bird for display or worn by a person for ornament. ""a hat with a jaunty ostrich plume"" synonyms: feather, quill   v. spread out in a shape resembling a feather. ""smoke plumed from the chimneys"""
whopping	"/ˈ(h)wäpiNG/ adj. very large. ""a whopping $74 million loss"""
frigid	"/ˈfrijid/ adj. very cold in temperature. ""frigid water"" synonyms: very cold, bitterly cold, bitter, freezing, frozen, frosty, icy, gelid, chilly, chill, wintry, bleak, subzero, arctic, Siberian, bone-chilling, polar, glacial, hypothermic ""a frigid January night"""
acumen	"/əˈkyo͞omən/ n. the ability to make good judgments and quick decisions, typically in a particular domain. ""business acumen"" synonyms: astuteness, shrewdness, acuity, sharpness, sharp-wittedness, cleverness, smartness, brains"
adulterate	"/əˈdəltəˌrāt/ v. render (something) poorer in quality by adding another substance, typically an inferior one. ""the meat was ground fine and adulterated with potato flour"" synonyms: make impure, degrade, debase, spoil, taint, contaminate antonyms: purify"
amalgamate	"/əˈmalɡəˌmāt/ v. combine or unite to form one organization or structure. ""he amalgamated his company with another"" synonyms: combine, merge, unite, fuse, blend, meld antonyms: separate"
archaic	"/ärˈkāik/ adj. very old or old-fashioned. ""prisons are run on archaic methods"" synonyms: obsolete, out of date, old-fashioned, outmoded, behind the times, bygone, anachronistic, antiquated, superannuated, antediluvian, old world, old-fangled antonyms: modern"
aver	"/əˈvər/ v. state or assert to be the case. ""he averred that he was innocent of the allegations"""
bolster	"/ˈbōlstər/ v. support or strengthen; prop up. ""the fall in interest rates is starting to bolster confidence"" synonyms: strengthen, reinforce, boost, fortify, renew antonyms: undermine"
bombastic	"/ˌbämˈbastik/ adj. high-sounding but with little meaning; inflated. ""bombastic rhetoric"" synonyms: pompous, blustering, turgid, verbose, orotund, high-flown, high-sounding, overwrought, pretentious, ostentatious, grandiloquent"
diatribe	"/ˈdīəˌtrīb/ n. a forceful and bitter verbal attack against someone or something. ""a diatribe against the Roman Catholic Church"" synonyms: tirade, harangue, onslaught, attack, polemic, denunciation, broadside, fulmination, condemnation, censure, criticism"
dissemble	"/dəˈsembəl/ v. conceal one's true motives, feelings, or beliefs. ""an honest, sincere person with no need to dissemble"" synonyms: dissimulate, pretend, feign, act, masquerade, sham, fake, bluff, posture, hide one's feelings, put on a false front"
eccentric	"/ikˈsentrik/ adj. (of a person or their behavior) unconventional and slightly strange. ""my favorite aunt is very eccentric"" synonyms: unconventional, uncommon, abnormal, irregular, aberrant, anomalous, odd, queer, strange, peculiar, weird, bizarre, outlandish, freakish, extraordinary antonyms: conventional"
endemic	"/enˈdemik/ adj. (of a disease or condition) regularly found among particular people or in a certain area. ""areas where malaria is endemic""   adj. (of a plant or animal) native or restricted to a certain country or area. ""a marsupial endemic to northeastern Australia"""
evanescent	"/ˌevəˈnes(ə)nt/ adj. soon passing out of sight, memory, or existence; quickly fading or disappearing. ""a shimmering evanescent bubble"" synonyms: vanishing, fading, evaporating, melting away, disappearing antonyms: permanent"
exacerbate	"/iɡˈzasərˌbāt/ v. make (a problem, bad situation, or negative feeling) worse. ""the exorbitant cost of land in urban areas only exacerbated the problem"" synonyms: aggravate, worsen, inflame, compound antonyms: reduce"
fervent	"/ˈfərvənt/ adj. having or displaying a passionate intensity. ""a fervent disciple of tax reform"" synonyms: impassioned, passionate, intense, vehement, ardent, sincere, fervid, heartfelt antonyms: apathetic"
fortuitous	"/fôrˈto͞oədəs/ adj. happening by accident or chance rather than design. ""the similarity between the paintings may not be simply fortuitous"" synonyms: chance, adventitious, unexpected, unanticipated, unpredictable, unforeseen, unlooked-for, serendipitous, casual, incidental, coincidental, random, accidental, inadvertent, unintentional, unintended, unplanned, unpremeditated ""a fortuitous resemblance"" antonyms: predictable"
germane	"/jərˈmān/ adj. relevant to a subject under consideration. ""that is not germane to our theme"" synonyms: relevant, pertinent, applicable, apposite, material antonyms: irrelevant"
grandiloquent	"/ɡranˈdiləkwənt/ adj. pompous or extravagant in language, style, or manner, especially in a way that is intended to impress. ""a grandiloquent celebration of Spanish glory"" synonyms: pompous, bombastic, magniloquent, pretentious, ostentatious, high-flown, orotund, florid, flowery antonyms: understated"
hackneyed	"/ˈhaknēd/ adj. (of a phrase or idea) lacking significance through having been overused; unoriginal and trite. ""hackneyed old sayings"" synonyms: overused, overdone, overworked, worn out, timeworn, platitudinous, vapid, stale, tired, threadbare antonyms: original"
trite	"/trīt/ adj. (of a remark, opinion, or idea) overused and consequently of little import; lacking originality or freshness. ""this point may now seem obvious and trite"" synonyms: banal, hackneyed, clichéd, platitudinous, vapid, commonplace, stock, conventional, stereotyped, overused, overdone, overworked, stale, worn out, timeworn, tired, hoary, hack, unimaginative, unoriginal, uninteresting, dull, uninvolving antonyms: original, imaginative"
halcyon	"/ˈhalsēən/ adj. denoting a period of time in the past that was idyllically happy and peaceful. ""the halcyon days of the mid-1980s, when profits were soaring"" synonyms: happy, golden, idyllic, carefree, blissful, joyful, joyous, contented"
hedonism	/ˈhedənˌizəm/ n. the pursuit of pleasure; sensual self-indulgence. synonyms: self-indulgence, pleasure-seeking, self-gratification, lotus-eating, sybaritism antonyms: self-restraint
hegemony	"/həˈjemənē/ n. leadership or dominance, especially by one country or social group over others. ""Germany was united under Prussian hegemony after 1871"" synonyms: leadership, dominance, dominion, supremacy, authority, mastery, control, power, sway, rule, sovereignty"
iconoclast	/īˈkänəˌklast/ n. a person who attacks cherished beliefs or institutions. synonyms: critic, skeptic   n. a destroyer of images used in religious worship, in particular.
idolatrous	"/īˈdälətrəs/ adj. worshiping idols. ""the idolatrous peasantry"""
impassive	"/imˈpasiv/ adj. not feeling or showing emotion. ""impassive passersby ignore the performers"" synonyms: expressionless, unexpressive, inexpressive, inscrutable, unreadable, blank, deadpan, poker-faced, straight-faced antonyms: expressive"
implacable	"/imˈplakəb(ə)l/adj. unable to be placated. ""he was an implacable enemy of Ted's"" synonyms: unappeasable, unforgiving, unsparing   adj. relentless; unstoppable. ""the implacable advance of the enemy"""
placate	"/ˈplākāt/ v. make (someone) less angry or hostile. ""they attempted to placate the students with promises"" synonyms: pacify, calm, appease, mollify, soothe, win over, conciliate, propitiate, make peace with, humor ""John did his best to placate her"" antonyms: provoke"
impunity	"/imˈpyo͞onədē/ n. exemption from punishment or freedom from the injurious consequences of an action. ""the impunity enjoyed by military officers implicated in civilian killings"" synonyms: immunity, indemnity, exemption (from punishment), freedom from liability, nonliability, license antonyms: liability"
inchoate	"/inˈkōət,ˈinkəˌwāt/ adj. just begun and so not fully formed or developed; rudimentary. ""a still inchoate democracy"" synonyms: rudimentary, undeveloped, unformed, immature, incipient, embryonic"
infelicitous	"/ˌinfəˈlisədəs/ adj. unfortunate; inappropriate. ""his illustration is singularly infelicitous"""
insipid	"/inˈsipid/ adj. lacking vigor or interest. ""many artists continued to churn out insipid, shallow works"" synonyms: unimaginative, uninspired, uninspiring, characterless, flat, uninteresting, lackluster, dull, drab, boring, dry, humdrum, ho-hum, monochrome, tedious, uneventful, run-of-the-mill, commonplace, pedestrian, trite, tired, hackneyed, stale, lame, wishy-washy, colorless, anemic, lifeless ""insipid pictures"" antonyms: interesting, imaginative"
loquacious	/lōˈkwāSHəs/ adj. tending to talk a great deal; talkative. synonyms: talkative, voluble, communicative, expansive, garrulous, unreserved, chatty, gossipy, gossiping antonyms: reticent, taciturn
malevolent	"/məˈlevələnt/ adj. having or showing a wish to do evil to others. ""the glint of dark, malevolent eyes"" synonyms: malicious, hostile, evil-minded, baleful, evil-intentioned, venomous, evil, malign, malignant, rancorous, vicious, vindictive, vengeful antonyms: benevolent"
malleable	"/ˈmalyəb(ə)l/ adj. (of a metal or other material) able to be hammered or pressed permanently out of shape without breaking or cracking. synonyms: pliable, ductile, plastic, pliant, soft, workable ""a malleable substance"" antonyms: hard   adj. easily influenced; pliable. ""Anna was shaken enough to be malleable"" synonyms: easily influenced, suggestible, susceptible, impressionable, pliable, amenable, compliant, tractable antonyms: intractable"
mendacity	"/menˈdasədē/ n. untruthfulness. ""people publicly castigated for past mendacity"""
meticulous	"/məˈtikyələs/ adj. showing great attention to detail; very careful and precise. ""he had always been so meticulous about his appearance"" synonyms: careful, conscientious, diligent, ultracareful, scrupulous, punctilious, painstaking, demanding, exacting, accurate, correct"
misanthrope	/ˈmis(ə)nˌTHrōp/ n. a person who dislikes humankind and avoids human society. synonyms: hater of mankind, hater, cynic
obdurate	/ˈäbd(y)ərət/ adj. stubbornly refusing to change one's opinion or course of action. synonyms: stubborn, obstinate, intransigent, inflexible, unyielding, unbending, pigheaded, bullheaded, mulish, stiff-necked antonyms: malleable, tractable
obsequious	"/əbˈsēkwēəs/ adj. obedient or attentive to an excessive or servile degree. ""they were served by obsequious waiters"" synonyms: servile, ingratiating, sycophantic, fawning, unctuous, oily, oleaginous, groveling, cringing, subservient, submissive, slavish antonyms: domineering"
occlude	"/əˈklo͞od/ v. stop, close up, or obstruct (an opening, orifice, or passage). ""thick makeup can occlude the pores"" synonyms: block (up), stop (up), obstruct, clog (up), close, shut, plug (up), choke ""a blood clot has occluded the coronary artery"""
opprobrium	"/əˈprōbrēəm/ n. harsh criticism or censure. ""his films and the critical opprobrium they have generated"" synonyms: vilification, abuse, vituperation, condemnation, criticism, censure, denunciation, defamation, denigration, castigation, disparagement, obloquy, derogation, slander, calumny, execration, lambasting, bad press, invective, libel, character assassination antonyms: praise   n. the public disgrace arising from someone's shameful conduct. ""the opprobrium of being closely associated with thugs and gangsters"" synonyms: disgrace, shame, dishonor, stigma, humiliation, discredit, loss of face, ignominy, obloquy, disrepute, infamy, notoriety, scandal antonyms: honor"
pedagogy	"/ˈpedəˌɡäjē/ n. the method and practice of teaching, especially as an academic subject or theoretical concept. ""the relationship between applied linguistics and language pedagogy"""
pedantic	"/pəˈdan(t)ik/ adj. of or like a pedant. ""many of the essays are long, dense, and too pedantic to hold great appeal"" synonyms: overscrupulous, scrupulous, precise, exact, perfectionist, punctilious, meticulous, fussy, fastidious, finicky"
pedant	/ˈpednt/ n. a person who is excessively concerned with minor details and rules or with displaying academic learning. synonyms: dogmatist, purist, literalist, formalist, doctrinaire, perfectionist
penury	"/ˈpenyərē/ n. extreme poverty; destitution. ""he died in a state of virtual penury"" synonyms: extreme poverty, destitution, pennilessness, impecuniousness, impoverishment, indigence, pauperism, privation, beggary ""Dylan was oblivious to his brother's wretched state of penury"""
pervasive	"/pərˈvāsiv/ adj. (especially of an unwelcome influence or physical effect) spreading widely throughout an area or a group of people. ""ageism is pervasive and entrenched in our society"" synonyms: prevalent, pervading, permeating, extensive, ubiquitous, omnipresent, universal, rife, widespread, general ""the low-carb craze is pervasive"""
pine	"/pīn/ v. suffer a mental and physical decline, especially because of a broken heart. ""she thinks I am pining away from love"" synonyms: languish, decline, weaken, waste away, wilt, wither, fade, sicken, droop"
pirate	"/ˈpīrət/ v. use or reproduce (another's work) for profit without permission, usually in contravention of patent or copyright. ""he sold pirated tapes of Hollywood blockbusters"" synonyms: steal, plagiarize, poach, copy illegally, reproduce illegally, appropriate, bootleg"
pith	"/piTH/ n. the essence of something. ""a book that he considered contained the pith of all his work"" synonyms: essence, main point, fundamentals, heart, substance, nub, core, quintessence, crux, gist, meat, kernel, marrow, burden ""the pith of the argument"""
pithy	/ˈpiTHē/ adj. (of language or style) concise and forcefully expressive. synonyms: succinct, terse, concise, compact, short (and sweet), brief, condensed, to the point, epigrammatic, crisp, thumbnail antonyms: verbose
platitude	"/ˈpladəˌt(y)o͞od/ n. a remark or statement, especially one with a moral content, that has been used too often to be interesting or thoughtful. ""she began uttering liberal platitudes"" synonyms: cliché, truism, commonplace, banality, old chestnut, bromide, inanity, banal/trite/hackneyed/stock phrase ""boring us with his platitudes"""
polemical	"/pəˈlemək(ə)l/ adj. relating to or involving strongly critical, controversial, or disputatious writing or speech. ""a polemical essay"" synonyms: critical, hostile, bitter, polemic, virulent, vitriolic, venomous, caustic, trenchant, cutting, acerbic, sardonic, sarcastic, scathing, sharp, incisive, devastating ""the first of his polemical essays against modernism"""
prodigal	"/ˈprädəɡəl/ adj. spending money or resources freely and recklessly; wastefully extravagant. ""prodigal habits die hard"" synonyms: wasteful, extravagant, spendthrift, profligate, improvident, imprudent antonyms: thrifty   adj. having or giving something on a lavish scale. ""the dessert was crunchy with brown sugar and prodigal with whipped cream"" synonyms: generous, lavish, liberal, unstinting, unsparing ""a composer who is prodigal with his talents"" antonyms: mean"
proliferate	"/prəˈlifəˌrāt/ v. increase rapidly in numbers; multiply. ""the science fiction magazines that proliferated in the 1920s"" synonyms: increase rapidly, grow rapidly, multiply, rocket, mushroom, snowball, burgeon, run riot ""stories of her trial proliferated"" antonyms: decrease, dwindle"
query	"/ˈkwirē/ n. a question, especially one addressed to an official or organization. ""a spokeswoman said queries could not be answered until Monday"" synonyms: question, inquiry   v. ask a question about something, especially in order to express one's doubts about it or to check its validity or accuracy. ""many people queried whether any harm had been done"" synonyms: ask, inquire, question"
querulous	"/ˈkwer(y)ələs/ adj. complaining in a petulant or whining manner. ""she became querulous and demanding"" synonyms: petulant, peevish, pettish, complaining, fractious, fretful, irritable, testy, tetchy, cross, snappish, crabby, crotchety, cantankerous, miserable, moody, grumpy, bad-tempered, sullen, sulky, sour, churlish"
rancorous	"/ˈraNGk(ə)rəs/ adj. characterized by bitterness or resentment. ""sixteen miserable months of rancorous disputes"" synonyms: bitter, spiteful, hateful, resentful, acrimonious, malicious, malevolent, hostile, venomous, vindictive, baleful, vitriolic, vengeful, pernicious, mean, nasty antonyms: amicable"
recalcitrant	"/rəˈkalsətrənt/ adj. having an obstinately uncooperative attitude toward authority or discipline. ""a class of recalcitrant fifteen-year-olds"" synonyms: uncooperative, intractable, obstreperous, truculent, insubordinate, defiant, rebellious, willful, wayward, headstrong, self-willed, contrary, perverse, difficult antonyms: amenable"
repudiate	"/rəˈpyo͞odēˌāt/ v. refuse to accept or be associated with. ""she has repudiated policies associated with previous party leaders"" synonyms: reject, renounce, abandon, give up, turn one's back on, disown, cast off, lay aside antonyms: embrace   v. deny the truth or validity of. ""the minister repudiated allegations of human rights abuses"" synonyms: deny, contradict, controvert, rebut, dispute, dismiss, brush aside ""Hansen repudiated the allegations"" antonyms: acknowledge, confirm"
rescind	"/rəˈsind/ v. revoke, cancel, or repeal (a law, order, or agreement). ""the government eventually rescinded the directive"" synonyms: revoke, repeal, cancel, reverse, overturn, overrule, annul, nullify, void, invalidate, quash, abolish antonyms: enforce"
reverent	"/ˈrev(ə)rənt/ adj. feeling or showing deep and solemn respect. ""a reverent silence"" synonyms: respectful, reverential, admiring, devoted, devout, dutiful, awed, deferential"
rhetoric	"/ˈredərik/ n. the art of effective or persuasive speaking or writing, especially the use of figures of speech and other compositional techniques. synonyms: oratory, eloquence, command of language, way with words ""a form of rhetoric""   n. language designed to have a persuasive or impressive effect on its audience, but often regarded as lacking in sincerity or meaningful content. ""all we have from the opposition is empty rhetoric"" synonyms: bombast, turgidity, grandiloquence, magniloquence, pomposity, extravagant language, purple prose"
salubrious	"/səˈlo͞obrēəs/ adj. health-giving; healthy. ""salubrious weather"" synonyms: healthy, health-giving, healthful, beneficial, wholesome ""I found the climate salubrious"" antonyms: unhealthy"
specious	"/ˈspēSHəs/ adj. superficially plausible, but actually wrong. ""a specious argument""   adj. misleading in appearance, especially misleadingly attractive. ""the music trade gives Golden Oldies a specious appearance of novelty"" synonyms: misleading, deceptive, false, fallacious, unsound, spurious, casuistic, sophistic ""specious reasoning"""
spurious	"/ˈsp(y)o͝orēəs/ adj. not being what it purports to be; false or fake. ""separating authentic and spurious claims"" synonyms: bogus, fake, false, counterfeit, forged, fraudulent, sham, artificial, imitation, simulated, feigned, deceptive, misleading, specious antonyms: genuine"
subpoena	"/səˈpēnə/ n. a writ ordering a person to attend a court. ""a subpoena may be issued to compel their attendance"""
succinct	"/sə(k)ˈsiNG(k)t/ adj. (especially of something written or spoken) briefly and clearly expressed. ""use short, succinct sentences"" synonyms: concise, short (and sweet), brief, compact, condensed, crisp, laconic, terse, to the point, pithy, epigrammatic, synoptic, gnomic ""just a succinct report, please"" antonyms: verbose"
superfluous	"/so͞oˈpərflo͞oəs/ adj. unnecessary, especially through being more than enough. ""the purchaser should avoid asking for superfluous information"" synonyms: surplus (to requirements), nonessential, redundant, unneeded, excess, extra, (to) spare, remaining, unused, left over, in excess, waste antonyms: necessary, essential"
surfeit	"/ˈsərfət/ n. an excessive amount of something. ""a surfeit of food and drink"" synonyms: excess, surplus, abundance, oversupply, superabundance, superfluity, glut, avalanche, deluge antonyms: lack   v. cause (someone) to desire no more of something as a result of having consumed or done it to excess. ""I am surfeited with shopping"" synonyms: satiate, sate, gorge, overfeed, overfill, glut, cram, stuff, overindulge, fill; saturate ""we'll all be surfeited with food"""
tenacity	"/təˈnasədē/ n. the quality or fact of being able to grip something firmly; grip. ""the sheer tenacity of the limpet"" synonyms: persistence, determination, perseverance, doggedness, strength of purpose, tirelessness, indefatigability, resolution, resoluteness, resolve, firmness, patience, purposefulness, staunchness, steadfastness, staying power, endurance, stamina, stubbornness, intransigence, obstinacy, obduracy, pertinacity ""she practices her gymnastics routine with the tenacity of a bulldog"""
tenuous	"/ˈtenyo͞oəs/ adj. very weak or slight. ""the tenuous link between interest rates and investment"" synonyms: slight, insubstantial, meager, flimsy, weak, doubtful, dubious, questionable, suspect antonyms: convincing, strong   adj. very slender or fine; insubstantial. ""a tenuous cloud"" synonyms: fine, thin, slender, delicate, wispy, gossamer, fragile antonyms: thick, strong"
zealous	"/ˈzeləs/ adj. having or showing zeal. ""the council was extremely zealous in the application of the regulations"" synonyms: fervent, ardent, fervid, fanatical, passionate, impassioned, devout, devoted, committed, dedicated, hard-core, enthusiastic, eager, keen, overkeen, avid, card-carrying, vigorous, energetic, intense, fierce ""a zealous worker"" antonyms: apathetic, indifferent"
liable	"/ˈlī(ə)b(ə)l/ adj. responsible by law; legally answerable. ""the supplier of goods or services can become liable for breach of contract in a variety of ways"" synonyms: responsible, legally responsible, accountable, answerable, chargeable, blameworthy, at fault, culpable, guilty ""they are liable for negligence""   adj. likely to do or to be something. ""patients were liable to faint if they stood up too suddenly"" synonyms: likely, inclined, tending, disposed, apt, predisposed, prone, given ""my income is liable to fluctuate wildly"""
conspicuous	"/kənˈspikyo͞oəs/ adj. standing out so as to be clearly visible. ""he was very thin, with a conspicuous Adam's apple""   adj. attracting notice or attention. ""he showed conspicuous bravery"" synonyms: easily seen, clear, visible, noticeable, discernible, perceptible, detectable"
prong	"/prôNG/ v. pierce or stab with a fork. ""pronging the bread with a fondue fork"""
revere	"/rəˈvir/ v. feel deep respect or admiration for (something). ""Cézanne's still lifes were revered by his contemporaries"" synonyms: respect, admire, honor, think highly of, esteem, hold in high esteem, hold in high regard, look up to, put on a pedestal, lionize, reverence ""she is revered as a national hero"""
acerbic	"/əˈsərbik/ adj. (especially of a comment or style of speaking) sharp and forthright. ""his acerbic wit"" synonyms: sharp, sarcastic, sardonic, mordant, trenchant, cutting, razor-edged, biting, piercing, stinging, searing, scathing, caustic, bitter, acrimonious, astringent, abrasive, harsh, wounding, hurtful, unkind, cruel, virulent, vitriolic, venomous, malicious, vicious antonyms: mild, kind"
aggrandize	"/əˈɡranˌdīz/ v. increase the power, status, or wealth of. ""an action intended to aggrandize the Frankish dynasty""   v. enhance the reputation of (someone) beyond what is justified by the facts. ""he hoped to aggrandize himself by dying a hero's death"""
anachronism	"/əˈnakrəˌnizəm/  n. a thing belonging or appropriate to a period other than that in which it exists, especially a thing that is conspicuously old-fashioned. ""everything was as it would have appeared in centuries past apart from one anachronism, a bright yellow construction crane"""
astringent	"/əˈstrinjənt/ adj. causing the contraction of body tissues, typically of the skin. ""an astringent skin lotion"" synonyms: constricting, constrictive, contracting; styptic ""the lotion has an astringent effect on pores""   adj. sharp or severe in manner or style. ""her astringent words had their effect"" synonyms: severe, sharp, stern, harsh, acerbic, acidulous, caustic, mordant, trenchant   n. a substance that causes the contraction of body tissues, typically used to protect the skin and to reduce bleeding from minor abrasions."
contiguous	"/kənˈtiɡyo͞oəs/  adj. sharing a common border; touching. ""the 48 contiguous states"" synonyms: adjacent, neighboring, adjoining, bordering, next-door"
credulous	/ˈkrejələs/ adj. having or showing too great a readiness to believe things. synonyms: gullible, naive, too trusting, easily taken in, impressionable, unsuspecting, unsuspicious, unwary, unquestioning antonyms: suspicious
cynicism	"/ˈsinəˌsizəm/ n. an inclination to believe that people are motivated purely by self-interest; skepticism. ""public cynicism about politics"" synonyms: skepticism, doubt, distrust, mistrust, suspicion, disbelief antonyms: idealism"
decorum	"/dəˈkôrəm/ n. behavior in keeping with good taste and propriety. ""you exhibit remarkable modesty and decorum"" synonyms: propriety, seemliness, decency, good taste, correctness antonyms: impropriety   n. etiquette. ""he had no idea of funeral decorum"" synonyms: etiquette, protocol, good form, custom, convention antonyms: impropriety"
derision	"/dəˈriZHən/ n. contemptuous ridicule or mockery. ""my stories were greeted with derision and disbelief"" synonyms: mockery, ridicule, jeers, sneers, taunts"
desiccate	"/ˈdesəˌkāt/ v. remove the moisture from (something, especially food), typically in order to preserve it. ""desiccated coconut"" synonyms: dried, dry, dehydrated, powdered antonyms: moist   v. lacking interest, passion, or energy. ""a desiccated history of ideas"""
dilettante	"/ˌdiləˈtänt/ n. a person who cultivates an area of interest, such as the arts, without real commitment or knowledge. ""a dilettante approach to science"" synonyms: dabbler, amateur, nonprofessional, nonspecialist, layman, layperson ""there is no room for the dilettante in this business"" antonyms: professional"
divulge	"/dīˈvəlj/ v. make known (private or sensitive information). ""I am too much of a gentleman to divulge her age"" synonyms: disclose, reveal, tell, communicate, pass on, publish, broadcast, proclaim antonyms: conceal"
fawn	"/fôn/ v. (of a person) give a servile display of exaggerated flattery or affection, typically in order to gain favor or advantage. ""congressmen fawn over the President"" synonyms: be obsequious to, be sycophantic to, curry favor with, flatter, play up to, crawl to, ingratiate oneself with, dance attendance on"
flout	"/flout/ v. openly disregard (a rule, law or convention). ""these same companies still flout basic ethical practices"" synonyms: defy, refuse to obey, disobey, break, violate, fail to comply with, fail to observe, contravene, infringe, breach, commit a breach of, transgress against antonyms: observe"
garrulous	"/ˈɡer(y)ələs/ adj. excessively talkative, especially on trivial matters. ""Polonius is portrayed as a foolish, garrulous old man"" synonyms: talkative, loquacious, voluble, verbose, chatty, chattering, gossipy antonyms: taciturn, reticent, concise"
glib	"/ɡlib/ adj. (of words or the person speaking them) fluent and voluble but insincere and shallow. ""she was careful not to let the answer sound too glib"" synonyms: slick, pat, fast-talking, smooth-talking antonyms: sincere"
hubris	/ˈ(h)yo͞obrəs/ n. excessive pride or self-confidence. synonyms: arrogance, conceit, haughtiness, hauteur, pride, self-importance, egotism, pomposity, superciliousness, superiority antonyms: humility
imminent	"/ˈimənənt/ adj. about to happen. ""they were in imminent danger of being swept away"" synonyms: impending, close (at hand), near, (fast) approaching, coming, forthcoming, on the way, in the offing, in the pipeline, on the horizon, in the air, just around the corner, coming down the pike, expected, anticipated, brewing, looming, threatening, menacing ""a ceasefire was imminent"""
immutable	"/i(m)ˈmyo͞odəb(ə)l/ adj. unchanging over time or unable to be changed. ""an immutable fact"" synonyms: fixed, set, rigid, inflexible, permanent, established, carved in stone antonyms: variable"
impetuous	"/imˈpeCH(o͞o)əs/ adj. acting or done quickly and without thought or care. ""her friend was headstrong and impetuous"" synonyms: impulsive, rash, hasty, overhasty, reckless, heedless, careless, foolhardy, bullheaded, headstrong, incautious, imprudent, injudicious, ill-considered, unthought-out antonyms: considered, cautious   adj. moving forcefully or rapidly. ""an impetuous but controlled flow of water"" synonyms: torrential, powerful, forceful, vigorous, violent, raging, relentless, uncontrolled antonyms: sluggish"
inimical	"/iˈnimək(ə)l/ adj. tending to obstruct or harm. ""actions inimical to our interests"" synonyms: harmful, injurious, detrimental, deleterious, prejudicial, damaging, hurtful, destructive, ruinous, pernicious antonyms: friendly, favorable"
intractable	"/ˌinˈtraktəb(ə)l/ adj. hard to control or deal with. ""intractable economic problems"" synonyms: unmanageable, uncontrollable, difficult, awkward, troublesome, demanding, burdensome antonyms: manageable   adj. (of a person) difficult; stubborn. synonyms: stubborn, obstinate, obdurate, inflexible, headstrong, willful, unbending, unyielding, uncompromising, unaccommodating, uncooperative, difficult, awkward, perverse, contrary, pigheaded, stiff-necked ""an intractable man"" antonyms: compliant"
intrepid	"/inˈtrepəd/ adj. fearless; adventurous (often used for rhetorical or humorous effect). ""our intrepid reporter"" synonyms: fearless, unafraid, undaunted, unflinching, unshrinking, bold, daring, gallant, audacious, adventurous, heroic, dynamic, spirited, indomitable antonyms: timid"
laconic	"/ləˈkänik/ adj. (of a person, speech, or style of writing) using very few words. ""his laconic reply suggested a lack of interest in the topic"" synonyms: brief, concise, terse, succinct, short, pithy antonyms: verbose, loquacious"
maverick	"/ˈmav(ə)rik/ n. an unorthodox or independent-minded person. ""a maverick among Connecticut Republicans"" synonyms: individualist, nonconformist, free spirit, unorthodox person, original, eccentric antonyms: conformist"
mercurial	"/ˌmərˈkyo͝orēəl/ adj. (of a person) subject to sudden or unpredictable changes of mood or mind. ""his mercurial temperament"" synonyms: volatile, capricious, temperamental, excitable, fickle, changeable, unpredictable, variable, protean, mutable, erratic, quicksilver, inconstant, inconsistent, unstable, unsteady, fluctuating, ever-changing, moody, flighty, wayward, whimsical, impulsive antonyms: stable"
mollify	"/ˈmäləˌfī/ v. appease the anger or anxiety of (someone). ""nature reserves were set up around the power stations to mollify local conservationists"" synonyms: appease, placate, pacify, conciliate, soothe, calm (down) ""they tried to mollify the protesters"" antonyms: enrage"
neophyte	"/ˈnēəˌfīt/ n. a person who is new to a subject, skill, or belief. ""four-day cooking classes are offered to neophytes and experts"" synonyms: beginner, learner, novice, newcomer"
obfuscate	"/ˈäbfəˌskāt/ v. render obscure, unclear, or unintelligible. ""the spelling changes will deform some familiar words and obfuscate their etymological origins"" synonyms: obscure, confuse, make unclear, blur, muddle, complicate, overcomplicate, muddy, cloud, befog ""mere rationalizations to obfuscate rather than clarify the real issue"" antonyms: clarify"
obstinate	/ˈäbstənət/ adj. stubbornly refusing to change one's opinion or chosen course of action, despite attempts to persuade one to do so. synonyms: stubborn, unyielding, inflexible, unbending, intransigent, intractable, obdurate, mulish, bullheaded, stubborn as a mule, pigheaded, self-willed, strong-willed, headstrong, willful, contrary, perverse, recalcitrant, refractory, uncooperative, unmanageable, stiff-necked, rigid, uncompromising, implacable, unrelenting, immovable, unshakable antonyms: compliant
ostentatious	"/ˌästənˈtāSHəs/ adj. characterized by vulgar or pretentious display; designed to impress or attract notice. ""books that people buy and display ostentatiously but never actually finish"" synonyms: showy, pretentious, conspicuous, flamboyant, gaudy, brash, vulgar, loud, extravagant, fancy, ornate, overelaborate antonyms: restrained"
pervade	"/pərˈvād/ v. (especially of a smell) spread through and be perceived in every part of. ""a smell of stale cabbage pervaded the air"" synonyms: permeate, spread through, fill, suffuse, be diffused through, imbue, penetrate, filter through, percolate through, infuse, perfuse, flow through"
phlegmatic	/fleɡˈmadik/ adj. (of a person) having an unemotional and stolidly calm disposition. synonyms: calm, cool, composed, 'calm, cool, and collected', controlled, serene, tranquil, placid, impassive, imperturbable, unruffled, dispassionate, philosophical antonyms: excitable
plethora	"/ˈpleTHərə/ n. a large or excessive amount of (something). ""a plethora of committees and subcommittees"" synonyms: excess, overabundance, superabundance, surplus, glut, superfluity, surfeit, profusion antonyms: dearth"
pristine	"/priˈstēn/ adj. clean and fresh as if new; spotless. ""a pristine white shirt"" synonyms: immaculate, perfect, in mint condition, as new, unspoiled, spotless, flawless, impeccable, clean, fresh, new, virgin, pure, unused ""Lurene's clothes are always so pristine"" antonyms: dirty, spoiled"
probity	"/ˈprōbədē/ n. the quality of having strong moral principles; honesty and decency. ""financial probity"" synonyms: integrity, honesty, uprightness, decency, morality, rectitude, goodness, virtue, right-mindedness, trustworthiness, truthfulness, honor ""the committee feels that he has demonstrated little probity in this matter"" antonyms: untrustworthiness"
proclivity	"/prōˈklivədē/ n. a tendency to choose or do something regularly; an inclination or predisposition toward a particular thing. ""a proclivity for hard work"" synonyms: inclination, tendency, leaning, disposition, proneness, propensity, bent, bias, penchant, predisposition"
profligate	"/ˈpräfləɡət/ adj. recklessly extravagant or wasteful in the use of resources. ""profligate consumers of energy"" synonyms: wasteful, extravagant, spendthrift, improvident, prodigal ""profligate local authorities"" antonyms: thrifty, frugal"
prosaic	"/prəˈzāik/ adj. having the style or diction of prose; lacking poetic beauty. ""prosaic language can't convey the experience"" synonyms: ordinary, everyday, commonplace, conventional, straightforward, routine, run-of-the-mill, by-the-numbers, workaday antonyms: interesting, imaginative, inspired   adj. commonplace; unromantic. ""the masses were too preoccupied by prosaic day-to-day concerns"""
quixotic	"/kwikˈsädik/ adj. exceedingly idealistic; unrealistic and impractical. ""a vast and perhaps quixotic project"" synonyms: idealistic, romantic, visionary, utopian, extravagant, starry-eyed, unrealistic, unworldly"
quotidian	"/kwōˈtidēən/ adj. ordinary or everyday, especially when mundane. ""his story is an achingly human one, mired in quotidian details"" synonyms: daily, everyday, day-to-day, diurnal antonyms: unusual"
recondite	"/ˈrekənˌdīt/ adj. (of a subject or knowledge) little known; abstruse. ""the book is full of recondite information"" synonyms: obscure, abstruse, arcane, esoteric, recherché, profound, difficult, complex, complicated, involved"
refulgent	"/rəˈfəljənt/ adj. shining brightly. ""refulgent blue eyes"""
renege	"/riˈneɡ/ v. go back on a promise, undertaking, or contract. ""the administration had reneged on its election promises"" synonyms: default on, fail to honor, go back on, break, back out of, withdraw from, retreat from, welsh on, backtrack on; break one's word/promise about ""he reneged on his campaign promises"" antonyms: honor"
sedulous	"/ˈsejələs/ adj. (of a person or action) showing dedication and diligence. ""he watched himself with the most sedulous care"" synonyms: diligent, careful, meticulous, thorough, assiduous, attentive, industrious, conscientious, ultracareful, punctilious, scrupulous, painstaking, minute, rigorous, particular ""he picked the thorn from his leg with sedulous care"""
shard	"/SHärd/ n. a piece of broken ceramic, metal, glass, or rock, typically having sharp edges. ""shards of glass flew in all directions"" synonyms: fragment, sliver, splinter, shiver, chip, piece, bit, particle ""a shard of glass in her heel"""
soporific	"/ˌsäpəˈrifik/ adj. tending to induce drowsiness or sleep. ""the motion of the train had a somewhat soporific effect""   adj. tediously boring or monotonous. ""a libel trial is in large parts intensely soporific"" synonyms: sleep-inducing, sedative, somnolent, calmative, tranquilizing, narcotic, opiate antonyms: invigorating"
sparse	"/spärs/ adj. thinly dispersed or scattered. ""areas of sparse population"" synonyms: scant, scanty, scattered, scarce, infrequent, few and far between antonyms: abundant   adj. austere; meager. ""an elegantly sparse chamber"""
spendthrift	/ˈspen(d)ˌTHrift/  n. a person who spends money in an extravagant, irresponsible way. synonyms: profligate, prodigal, squanderer, waster antonyms: miser, frugal
subtle	"/ˈsədl/ adj. (especially of a change or distinction) so delicate or precise as to be difficult to analyze or describe. ""his language expresses rich and subtle meanings"" synonyms: fine, fine-drawn, nice, hair-splitting ""subtle distinctions"""
tacit	"/ˈtasət/ adj. understood or implied without being stated. ""your silence may be taken to mean tacit agreement"" synonyms: implicit, understood, implied, hinted, suggested antonyms: explicit"
terse	"/tərs/ adj. sparing in the use of words; abrupt. ""a terse statement"" synonyms: brief, short, to the point, concise, succinct, crisp, pithy, incisive, trenchant, short and sweet, laconic, elliptical antonyms: long-winded, polite"
trenchant	"/ˈtren(t)SHənt/ adj. vigorous or incisive in expression or style. ""she heard angry voices, not loud, yet certainly trenchant"" synonyms: incisive, penetrating, sharp, keen, insightful, acute, focused, shrewd, razor-sharp, piercing antonyms: vague"
unfeigned	"/ˌənˈfānd/ adj. genuine; sincere. ""a broad smile of unfeigned delight"" synonyms: sincere, genuine, real, true, honest, unaffected, unforced, heartfelt, wholehearted, bona fide ""he looked at his wife with unfeigned admiration"" antonyms: insincere"
untenable	"/ˌənˈtenəb(ə)l/ adj. (especially of a position or view) not able to be maintained or defended against attack or objection. ""this argument is clearly untenable"" synonyms: indefensible, insupportable, unsustainable, unjustified, unjustifiable, flimsy, weak, shaky ""these untenable explanations are not helping your case"""
vacillate	"/ˈvasəˌlāt/ v. alternate or waver between different opinions or actions; be indecisive. ""I had for a time vacillated between teaching and journalism"" synonyms: dither, waver, be indecisive, be undecided, be ambivalent, hesitate, be of two minds, blow hot and cold, keep changing one's mind, be conflicted"
variegated	"/ˈver(ē)əˌɡādəd/ adj. exhibiting different colors, especially as irregular patches or streaks. ""variegated yellow bricks""    adj. marked by variety. ""his variegated and amusing observations"""
vituperate	/vəˈtyo͞opərāt/ v. blame or insult (someone) in strong or violent language. synonyms: scold, revile, upbraid, criticize antonyms: praise
volatile	"/ˈvälədl/ adj. (of a substance) easily evaporated at normal temperatures. synonyms: evaporative, vaporous antonyms: stable   adj. liable to change rapidly and unpredictably, especially for the worse. ""the political situation was becoming more volatile"" synonyms: tense, strained, fraught, uneasy, uncomfortable, charged, explosive, inflammatory, turbulent antonyms: stable, calm"
puritanical	/ˌpyo͝orəˈtanək(ə)l/ adj. practicing or affecting strict religious or moral behavior. synonyms: moralistic, puritan, pietistic, strait-laced, stuffy, prudish, prim, priggish
outlook	"/ˈoutˌlo͝ok/ n. a person's point of view or general attitude to life. ""broaden your outlook on life"" synonyms: point of view, viewpoint, views, opinion, (way of) thinking, perspective, attitude, standpoint, stance, frame of mind ""the two men were wholly different in outlook""   n. a view. ""the pleasant outlook from the lodge window"" synonyms: view, vista, prospect, panorama, scene, aspect ""a lovely open outlook"""
rectify	"/ˈrektəˌfī/ v. put (something) right; correct. ""mistakes made now cannot be rectified later"" synonyms: correct, right, put right, put to rights, sort out, deal with, amend, remedy, repair, fix, make good, resolve, settle ""Perry is willing to do anything to rectify the situation with his estranged grandfather""   v. convert (alternating current) to direct current. ""rectified AC power systems""   v. find a straight line equal in length to (a curve)."
budge	"/bəj/ v. make or cause to make the slightest movement. ""the line in the bank hasn't budged"" synonyms: move, shift, stir, go   v. change or make (someone) change an opinion. ""I tried to persuade him, but he wouldn't budge"" synonyms: give in, give way, yield, change one's mind, acquiesce, compromise, do a U-turn ""they refuse to budge on the issue"""
halt	"n. a suspension of movement or activity, typically a temporary one. ""a halt in production"" synonyms: stop, standstill"
quell	"/kwel/ v. put an end to (a rebellion or other disorder), typically by the use of force. ""extra police were called to quell the disturbance"" synonyms: put an end to, put a stop to, end, crush, put down, check, crack down on, curb, nip in the bud, squash, quash, subdue, suppress, overcome ""troops quelled the unrest""   v. suppress (a feeling, especially an unpleasant one). ""he spoke up again to quell any panic among the assembled youngsters"" synonyms: calm, soothe, pacify, settle, quiet, silence, allay, assuage, mitigate, moderate ""he quelled his misgivings"""
teem	"/tēm/ v. be full of or swarming with. ""every garden is teeming with wildlife"" synonyms: be full of, be filled with, be alive with, be brimming with, abound in, be swarming with, be aswarm with"
decent	"/ˈdēs(ə)nt/ adj. conforming with generally accepted standards of respectable or moral behavior. ""the good name of such a decent and innocent person""   adj. of an acceptable standard; satisfactory. ""find me a decent cup of coffee"" synonyms: satisfactory, reasonable, fair, acceptable, adequate, sufficient, ample"
invocation	"/ˌinvəˈkāSH(ə)n/ n. the action of invoking something or someone for assistance or as an authority. ""the invocation of new disciplines and methodologies""   n. the summoning of a deity or the supernatural. ""his invocation of the ancient mystical powers"""
untether	"/ˌənˈteT͟Hər/ v. release or free from a tether. ""I reached the horses and untethered them"""
foible	"/ˈfoibəl/n. a minor weakness or eccentricity in someone's character. ""they have to tolerate each other's little foibles"" synonyms: weakness, failing, shortcoming, flaw, imperfection, blemish, fault, defect, limitation"
incertitude	"/inˈsərdəˌt(y)o͞od/ n. a state of uncertainty or hesitation. ""some schools broke down under the stresses of policy incertitude"""
bellicose	"/ˈbeləˌkōs/ adj. demonstrating aggression and willingness to fight. ""a group of bellicose patriots"" synonyms: belligerent, aggressive, hostile, warlike, warmongering, hawkish, antagonistic, pugnacious, truculent, confrontational, contentious, militant, combative"
runoff	/ˈrənäf/ n. a further competition, election, race, etc., after a tie or inconclusive result.   n. the draining away of water (or substances carried in it) from the surface of an area of land, a building or structure, etc.
poised	/poizd/ adj. having a composed and self-assured manner.
dissident	"/ˈdisədənt/ n. a person who opposes official policy, especially that of an authoritarian state. ""a dissident who had been jailed by a military regime"" synonyms: dissenter, objector, protester   adj. in opposition to official policy. ""there is only one explicitly dissident voice to be heard"" synonyms: dissenting, disagreeing"
concession	"/kənˈseSHən/ n. a thing that is granted, especially in response to demands; a thing conceded. ""the strikers returned to work having won some concessions"" synonyms: compromise, allowance, exception ""the government made several concessions""   n. a preferential allowance or rate given by an organization. ""tax concessions"" synonyms: reduction, cut, discount, deduction, decrease"
impudence	"/ˈimpyədəns/ n. the quality of being impudent; impertinence. ""his arrogance and impudence had offended many"" synonyms: impertinence, insolence, effrontery, audacity, cheek, cheekiness, cockiness, brazenness, brass, boldness"
cheek	"/CHēk/ n. either side of the face below the eye. ""tears rolled down her cheeks""   n. impertinent talk or behavior. ""he had the cheek to complain"" synonyms: impudence, cheekiness, insolence, effrontery, audacity, impertinence, cockiness"
temerity	"/təˈmerədē/ n. excessive confidence or boldness; audacity. ""no one had the temerity to question his conclusions"" synonyms: audacity, nerve, effrontery, impudence, impertinence, cheek, gall, presumption"
gall	"/ɡôl/n. bold, impudent behavior. ""the bank had the gall to demand a fee"" synonyms: effrontery, impudence, impertinence, cheek, cheekiness, insolence, audacity, temerity, presumption, cockiness, nerve, shamelessness, disrespect, bad manners   n. the contents of the gallbladder; bile (proverbial for its bitterness). synonyms: bitterness, resentment, rancor, bile, spleen, malice, spite, spitefulness, malignity, venom, vitriol, poison ""scholarly gall was poured on this work"""
nerve	"/nərv/  v. brace oneself mentally to face a demanding situation. ""she nerved herself to enter the room"""
lassitude	"/ˈlasəˌt(y)o͞od/ n. a state of physical or mental weariness; lack of energy. ""she was overcome by lassitude and retired to bed"" synonyms: lethargy, listlessness, weariness, languor, sluggishness, tiredness, fatigue, torpor, lifelessness, apathy ""prolonged periods of lassitude"""
languor	"/ˈlaNG(ɡ)ər/n. the state or feeling, often pleasant, of tiredness or inertia. ""he remembered the languor and warm happiness of those golden afternoons"" synonyms: lassitude, lethargy, listlessness, torpor, fatigue, weariness, sleepiness, drowsiness   n. an oppressive stillness of the air. ""the afternoon was hot, quiet, and heavy with languor"" synonyms: stillness, tranquility, calm, calmness"
humdrum	"/ˈhəmˌdrəm/ adj. lacking excitement or variety; dull; monotonous. ""humdrum routine work"" synonyms: mundane, dull, dreary, boring, tedious, monotonous, uninvolving, prosaic   n. dullness; monotony. ""an escape from the humdrum of his life"""
retrieve	"/rəˈtrēv/v. get or bring (something) back; regain possession of. ""I was sent to retrieve the balls from his garden"" synonyms: get back, bring back, recover, regain (possession of), recoup, reclaim, repossess, redeem, recuperate"
wreath	/rēTH/ n. an arrangement of flowers, leaves, or stems fastened in a ring and used for decoration or for laying on a grave. synonyms: garland, circlet, chaplet, crown, festoon, lei
snort	"/snôrt/ v. make a sudden sound through one's nose, especially to express indignation or derision. ""she snorted with laughter""   v. (of an animal) make a sudden explosive sound through the nose, especially when excited or frightened."
austerity	"/ôˈsterədē/ n. sternness or severity of manner or attitude. ""he was noted for his austerity and his authoritarianism""   n. extreme plainness and simplicity of style or appearance. ""the room was decorated with a restraint bordering on austerity""   n. conditions characterized by severity, sternness, or asceticism. plural noun: austerities ""a simple life of prayer and personal austerity"" synonyms: severity, strictness, seriousness, solemnity, gravity"
fashion	"/ˈfaSHən/  n. a manner of doing something. ""the work is done in a rather casual fashion"" synonyms: manner, way, method, mode, style   v. make into a particular or the required form. ""the bottles were fashioned from green glass"" synonyms: construct, build, make, manufacture, fabricate, tailor, contrive"
barred	"/bärd/ adj. closed or secured with a long rod or rigid piece of wood, metal, or similar material. ""he sits by a barred window""   adj. marked with bands of color or light. ""he spotted a barred owl"""
bigotry	"/ˈbiɡətrē/ n. intolerance toward those who hold different opinions from oneself. ""the difficulties of combating prejudice and bigotry"""
abhorrent	"/abˈhôrənt/ adj. inspiring disgust and loathing; repugnant. ""racial discrimination was abhorrent to us all"" synonyms: detestable, hateful, loathsome, despicable, abominable, execrable, repellent, repugnant, repulsive, revolting, disgusting, distasteful, horrible, horrid, horrifying, awful, heinous, reprehensible, obnoxious, odious, nauseating, offensive, contemptible ""he continued to find war morally abhorrent"""
aqueous	"/ˈakwēəs/ adj. of or containing water, typically as a solvent or medium. ""an aqueous solution of potassium permanganate"""
premises	"/ˈpreməsəz/ n. a house or building, together with its land and outbuildings, occupied by a business or considered in an official context. ""business premises"" synonyms: building(s), property, site, office ""he was asked to leave the premises"""
premise	"/ˈpreməs/ v. base an argument, theory, or undertaking on. ""the reforms were premised on our findings"""
preface	"/ˈprefəs/v. provide (a book) with a preface. ""the book is prefaced by a quotation from William Faulkner"" synonyms: precede, introduce, begin, open, start ""the chapter is prefaced by a poem"""
exploit	"/ikˈsploit/ v. make full use of and derive benefit from (a resource). ""500 companies sprang up to exploit this new technology"" synonyms: utilize, harness, use, make use of, turn/put to good use, make the most of, capitalize on  ""we should exploit this new technology""   /ekˌsploit/ n. a bold or daring feat. ""the most heroic and secretive exploits of the war"" synonyms: feat, deed, act, adventure, stunt, escapade"
rumination	"/ˌro͞oməˈnāSH(ə)n/ n. a deep or considered thought about something. ""philosophical ruminations about life and humanity""   n. the action of chewing the cud. ""cows slow down their rumination"""
epithet	"/ˈepəˌTHet/ n. an adjective or descriptive phrase expressing a quality characteristic of the person or thing mentioned. ""old men are often unfairly awarded the epithet “dirty.”"" synonyms: sobriquet, nickname, byname, title, name, label, tag"
foreboding	"/fôrˈbōdiNG/ n. fearful apprehension; a feeling that something bad will happen. ""with a sense of foreboding she read the note"" synonyms: apprehension, anxiety, trepidation, disquiet, unease, uneasiness, misgiving, suspicion, worry, fear, fearfulness, dread, alarm   adj. implying or seeming to imply that something bad is going to happen. ""when the doctor spoke, his voice was dark and foreboding"""
usher	"/ˈəSHər/ v. show or guide (someone) somewhere. ""a waiter ushered me to a table"" synonyms: escort, accompany, take, show, see, lead, conduct, guide, steer, shepherd, marshal ""she ushered him to a window seat""   v. cause or mark the start of something new. ""the railroads ushered in an era of cheap mass travel"" synonyms: herald, mark the start of, signal, ring in, show in, set the scene for, pave the way for"
unfetter	"/ˌənˈfedər/ v. release from restraint or inhibition. ""his imagination is unfettered by the laws of logic"" synonyms: unrestrained, unrestricted, unconstrained, uninhibited, free, rampant, unbridled, unchecked, unmufflered, uncontrolled ""the choice between a planned economy and an unfettered market"""
sentiment	"/ˈsen(t)əmənt/ n. a view of or attitude toward a situation or event; an opinion. ""I agree with your sentiments regarding the road bridge"" synonyms: view, feeling, attitude, thought, opinion, belief ""the comments echo my own sentiments""   n. a feeling or emotion. ""an intense sentiment of horror"""
readily	"/ˈredəlē/ adv. without hesitation or reluctance; willingly. ""he readily admits that the new car surpasses its predecessors"" synonyms: willingly, without hesitation, unhesitatingly, ungrudgingly, gladly, happily, eagerly, promptly ""Durkin readily offered to drive him""   adv. without delay or difficulty; easily. ""illegal fireworks are readily available"" synonyms: easily, with ease, without difficulty ""the island is readily accessible"""
savvy	"/ˈsavē/ n. shrewdness and practical knowledge; the ability to make good judgments. ""the financiers lacked the necessary political savvy"" synonyms: shrewdness, astuteness, sharp-wittedness, sharpness, acuteness, acumen, acuity, intelligence, wit, canniness, common sense, discernment, insight, understanding, penetration, perception, perceptiveness, perspicacity, knowledge, sagacity   v. know or understand. ""Charley would savvy what to do about such a girl""   adj. shrewd and knowledgeable; having common sense and good judgment. synonyms: shrewd, astute, sharp-witted, sharp, acute, adroit, intelligent, clever, canny, perceptive, perspicacious, sagacious, sage, wise"
beleaguer	"/bəˈlēɡər/ v. lay siege to. ""he is leading a relief force to the aid of the beleaguered city"" synonyms: besieged, under siege, blockaded, surrounded, encircled, beset, hemmed in, under attack ""the beleaguered garrison""   v. beset with difficulties. ""the board is supporting the beleaguered director amid calls for his resignation"" synonyms: hard-pressed, troubled, in difficulties, under pressure, under stress, with one's back to the wall, in a tight corner, in a tight spot, up against it"
levy	"/ˈlevē/ v. impose (a tax, fee, or fine). ""a new tax could be levied on industry to pay for cleaning up contaminated land"" synonyms: impose, charge, exact, raise, collect ""the government's right to levy taxes"""
aggrieved	"/əˈɡrēvd/ adj. feeling resentment at having been unfairly treated. ""they were aggrieved at the outcome"" synonyms: resentful, affronted, indignant, disgruntled, discontented, upset, offended, piqued, riled, nettled, vexed, irked, irritated, annoyed, put out, chagrined"
perch	"/pərCH/ n. a thing on which a bird alights or roosts, typically a branch or a horizontal rod or bar in a birdcage. synonyms: pole, rod, branch, roost, rest, resting place ""the chicken's perch""   v. (of a bird) alight or rest on something. ""a herring gull perched on the mast"" synonyms: roost, sit, rest"
animus	"/ˈanəməs/ n. hostility or ill feeling. ""the author's animus toward her"""
revoke	"/rəˈvōk/ v. put an end to the validity or operation of (a decree, decision, or promise). ""the men appealed and the sentence was revoked"" synonyms: cancel, repeal, rescind, reverse, annul, nullify, void, invalidate, countermand, retract, withdraw, overrule, override"
bail	"/bāl/ n. the temporary release of an accused person awaiting trial, sometimes on condition that a sum of money be lodged to guarantee their appearance in court. ""he has been released on bail"" synonyms: surety, security, assurance, indemnity, indemnification   v. release or secure the release of (a prisoner) on payment of bail. ""his son called home to get bailed out of jail"""
tamper	"/ˈtampər/ v. interfere with (something) in order to cause damage or make unauthorized alterations. ""someone tampered with the brakes on my car"" synonyms: interfere with, monkey around with, meddle with, tinker with, fiddle with, fool around with, play around with   v. exert a secret or corrupt influence upon (someone). synonyms: influence, get at, rig, manipulate, bribe, corrupt, bias ""the defendant tampered with the jury"""
statute	"/ˈstaCHo͞ot/  n. a written law passed by a legislative body. ""violation of the hate crimes statute"" synonyms: law, regulation, enactment, act, bill, decree, edict, rule, ruling, resolution, dictum, command, order, directive, order-in-council, pronouncement, proclamation, dictate, fiat, bylaw, ordinance ""she built her case around an all but forgotten statute""   n. a rule of an organization or institution. ""the appointment will be subject to the statutes of the university"""
trailblazer	"/ˈtrālˌblāzər/  n. a pioneer; an innovator. ""he was a trailblazer for many ideas that are now standard fare"" synonyms: pioneer, innovator, groundbreaker, spearhead, trendsetter"
imbue	"/imˈbyo͞o/ v. inspire or permeate with a feeling or quality. ""the entire performance was imbued with sparkle and elan"" synonyms: permeate, saturate, diffuse, suffuse, pervade, bathe, drench, steep"
deficit	"/ˈdefəsət/ n. the amount by which something, especially a sum of money, is too small. synonyms: shortfall, deficiency, shortage, debt, arrears   n. an excess of expenditure or liabilities over income or assets in a given period. ""an annual operating deficit"""
quirky	"/ˈkwərkē/ adj. characterized by peculiar or unexpected traits. ""her sense of humor was decidedly quirky"" synonyms: eccentric, idiosyncratic, unconventional, unorthodox, unusual, strange, bizarre, peculiar, odd, outlandish, zany"
dissent	"/dəˈsent/ n. the expression or holding of opinions at variance with those previously, commonly, or officially held. ""there was no dissent from this view"" synonyms: disagreement, difference of opinion, argument, dispute   v. hold or express opinions that are at variance with those previously, commonly, or officially expressed. ""two members dissented from the majority"""
embrace	"/əmˈbrās/ v. hold (someone) closely in one's arms, especially as a sign of affection. ""Aunt Sophie embraced her warmly"" synonyms: hug, take/hold in one's arms, hold, cuddle, clasp to one's bosom, clasp, squeeze, clutch   v. accept or support (a belief, theory, or change) willingly and enthusiastically. ""besides traditional methods, artists are embracing new technology"" synonyms: welcome, welcome with open arms, accept, take up, take to one's heart, adopt"
dotard	/ˈdōdərd/n. an old person, especially one who has become weak or senile.
derange	"/dəˈrānj/ v. cause (someone) to become insane. ""that business last month must have deranged him a bit""   v. throw (something) into confusion; cause to act irregularly. ""stress deranges the immune system"""
ailment	/ˈālmənt/ n. an illness, typically a minor one. synonyms: illness, disease, sickness, disorder, condition, affliction, malady, complaint, infirmity
abash	"/əˈbaSH/ v. cause to feel embarrassed, disconcerted, or ashamed. ""she was not abashed at being caught"" synonyms: embarrassed, ashamed, shamefaced, remorseful, conscience-stricken, mortified, humiliated, humbled, chagrined, crestfallen, sheepish, red-faced, blushing, put out of countenance, with one's tail between one's legs"
abject	"/abˌjekt/ adj. (of something bad) experienced or present to the maximum degree. ""his letter plunged her into abject misery"" synonyms: wretched, miserable, hopeless, pathetic, pitiful, pitiable, piteous, sorry, woeful, lamentable, degrading, appalling, atrocious, awful ""abject poverty""   adj. (of a person or their behavior) completely without pride or dignity; self-abasing. ""an abject apology"" synonyms: contemptible, base, low, vile, worthless, debased, degraded, despicable, ignominious, mean, unworthy, ignoble"
abnegate	"/ˈabnəˌɡāt/ v. renounce or reject (something desired or valuable). ""he attempts to abnegate personal responsibility"""
abrogate	"/ˈabrəˌɡāt/ v. repeal or do away with (a law, right, or formal agreement). ""a proposal to abrogate temporarily the right to strike"" synonyms: repeal, revoke, rescind, repudiate, overturn, annul antonyms: institute, introduce   v. evade (a responsibility or duty). ""we believe the board is abrogating its responsibilities to its shareholders"""
abstemious	"/əbˈstēmēəs/ adj. not self-indulgent, especially when eating and drinking. ""“We only had a bottle.” “Very abstemious of you.”"" synonyms: self-denying, temperate, abstinent, moderate, self-disciplined, restrained, self-restrained, sober, austere, ascetic, puritanical, spartan, hair-shirt ""the monks here have willingly chosen this abstemious life"" antonyms: self-indulgent"
abstruse	"/abˈstro͞os/ adj. difficult to understand; obscure. ""an abstruse philosophical inquiry"" synonyms: obscure, arcane, esoteric, little known, recherché, rarefied, recondite, difficult, hard, puzzling, perplexing, cryptic, enigmatic, Delphic, complex, complicated, involved, over/above one's head, incomprehensible, unfathomable, impenetrable, mysterious ""her abstruse arguments were hard to follow"""
abysmal	"/əˈbizməl/ adj. extremely bad; appalling. ""the quality of her work is abysmal"" synonyms: very bad, dreadful, awful, terrible, frightful, atrocious, disgraceful, deplorable, shameful, hopeless, lamentable"
accede	"/əkˈsēd/ v. assent or agree to a demand, request, or treaty. ""the authorities did not accede to the strikers' demands"" synonyms: agree to, consent to, accept, assent to, acquiesce in, comply with, go along with, concur with, surrender to, yield to, give in to, give way to, defer to ""he acceded to the government's demands""   v. assume an office or position. ""he acceded to the post of director in September"" synonyms: succeed to, come to, assume, inherit, take ""Elizabeth I acceded to the throne in 1558"""
adduce	"/əˈd(y)o͞os/ v. cite as evidence. ""a number of factors are adduced to explain the situation"" synonyms: cite, quote, name, mention, instance, point out, refer to"
adroit	"/əˈdroit/ adj. clever or skillful in using the hands or mind. ""he was adroit at tax avoidance"" synonyms: skillful, adept, dexterous, deft, nimble, able, capable, skilled, expert, masterly, masterful, master, practiced, handy, polished, slick, proficient, accomplished, gifted, talented antonyms: inept, clumsy"
advent	"/ˈadˌvent/ n. the arrival of a notable person, thing, or event. ""the advent of television"" synonyms: arrival, appearance, emergence, materialization, occurrence, dawn, birth, rise, development antonyms: disappearance"
affable	"/ˈafəb(ə)l/ adj. friendly, good-natured, or easy to talk to. ""an affable and agreeable companion"" synonyms: friendly, amiable, genial, congenial, cordial, warm, pleasant, nice, likable, personable, charming, agreeable, sympathetic, simpatico, good-humored, good-natured, jolly, kindly, kind, courteous, civil, gracious, approachable, accessible, amenable, sociable, hail-fellow-well-met, outgoing, gregarious, neighborly ""he would have us believe that his sexual advances were merely the charming excesses of an affable rogue"" antonyms: unfriendly"
affectation	"/ˌafekˈtāSH(ə)n/ n. behavior, speech, or writing that is artificial and designed to impress. ""the affectation of a man who measures every word for effect"" synonyms: pretension, pretentiousness, affectedness, artificiality, posturing, posing; airs (and graces) ""the affectations of a prima donna"""
aggregate	"/ˈaɡriɡət/ n. a whole formed by combining several (typically disparate) elements. ""the council was an aggregate of three regional assemblies""   v. form or group into a class or cluster. ""the butterflies aggregate in dense groups"""
aghast	"/əˈɡast/ adj. filled with horror or shock. ""when the news came out they were aghast"" synonyms: horrified, appalled, dismayed, thunderstruck, stunned, shocked, staggered ""eyewitnesses to the explosion were aghast"""
allege	"/əˈlej/ v. claim or assert that someone has done something illegal or wrong, typically without proof that this is the case. ""he alleged that he had been assaulted"" synonyms: claim, assert, charge, accuse, declare, state, contend, argue, affirm, maintain, attest, testify, swear ""both children allege that the babysitter had left them alone for hours at a time""   v. suppose or affirm to be the case. ""the first artifact ever alleged to be from Earhart's aircraft"""
allusion	"/əˈlo͞oZHən/ n. an expression designed to call something to mind without mentioning it explicitly; an indirect or passing reference. ""an allusion to Shakespeare"" synonyms: reference to, mention of, suggestion of, hint to, intimation of, comment on, remark on ""the town's name is an allusion to its founding family"""
ambience	"/ˈambēəns/ n. the character and atmosphere of a place. ""the relaxed ambience of the cocktail lounge is popular with guests"" synonyms: atmosphere, air, aura, climate, mood, feel, feeling, character, quality, impression, complexion, flavor, look, tone, tenor"
ambivalent	"/amˈbivələnt/ adj. having mixed feelings or contradictory ideas about something or someone. ""some loved her, some hated her, few were ambivalent about her"" synonyms: equivocal, uncertain, unsure, doubtful, indecisive, inconclusive, irresolute, of two minds, undecided, torn, in a quandary, on the fence, hesitating, wavering, vacillating, equivocating, blowing/running hot and cold ""the need to relocate has made her ambivalent about the promotion"" antonyms: unequivocal, certain"
amorphous	"/əˈmôrfəs/adj. without a clearly defined shape or form. ""amorphous blue forms and straight black lines"" synonyms: shapeless, formless, structureless, indeterminate   adj. vague; ill-organized; unclassifiable. ""make explicit the amorphous statements"""
anathema	"/əˈnaTHəmə/ n. something or someone that one vehemently dislikes. ""racial hatred was anathema to her"" synonyms: an abomination, an outrage, an abhorrence, a disgrace, an evil, a bane, a bugbear, a bête noire"
animosity	"/ˌanəˈmäsədē/ n. strong hostility. ""he no longer felt any animosity toward her"" synonyms: antipathy, hostility, friction, antagonism, acrimony, enmity, animus, bitterness, rancor, resentment, dislike, ill feeling/will, bad blood, hatred, hate, loathing antonyms: goodwill, friendship"
antecedent	"/ˌan(t)əˈsēdnt/ n. a thing or event that existed before or logically precedes another. ""some antecedents to the African novel might exist in Africa's oral traditions"" synonyms: precursor, forerunner, predecessor ""the guitar's antecedent"" antonyms: descendant   n. a person's ancestors or family and social background. ""her early life and antecedents have been traced"" synonyms: ancestor, forefather, forebear, progenitor, primogenitor antonyms: descendant"
antithesis	"/anˈtiTHəsəs/ n. a person or thing that is the direct opposite of someone or something else. ""love is the antithesis of selfishness"" synonyms: (complete) opposite, converse, contrary, reverse, inverse, obverse, other side of the coin ""friends of the actress say she is quite the antithesis of her giddy and frivolous character""   n. a contrast or opposition between two things. ""the antithesis between occult and rational mentalities"""
aphorism	"/ˈafəˌrizəm/ n. a pithy observation that contains a general truth, such as, “if it ain't broke, don't fix it.”. synonyms: saying, maxim, axiom, adage, epigram, dictum, gnome, proverb, saw, tag ""she was a fount of Orwellian aphorisms"""
apocryphal	"/əˈpäkrəfəl/ adj. (of a story or statement) of doubtful authenticity, although widely circulated as being true. ""an apocryphal story about a former president"" synonyms: fictitious, made-up, untrue, fabricated, false, spurious antonyms: authentic"
archetype	"/ˈärkəˌtīp/ n. a very typical example of a certain person or thing. ""the book is a perfect archetype of the genre""   n. an original that has been imitated. ""the archetype of faith is Abraham"" synonyms: quintessence, essence, representative, model, embodiment, prototype, stereotype"
apostasy	/əˈpästəsē/ n. the abandonment or renunciation of a religious or political belief.
apposite	"/ˈapəzət/ adj. apt in the circumstances or in relation to something. ""an apposite quotation"" synonyms: appropriate, suitable, fitting, apt, befitting antonyms: inappropriate"
appropriate	"/əˈprōprēət/ v. take (something) for one's own use, typically without the owner's permission. ""his images have been appropriated by advertisers"" synonyms: seize, commandeer, expropriate, annex, arrogate, sequestrate, sequester, take over, hijack   v. devote (money or assets) to a special purpose. ""there can be problems in appropriating funds for legal expenses"" synonyms: allocate, assign, allot, earmark, set aside, devote, apportion ""we are appropriating funds for these expenses"""
arrant	"/ˈerənt/ adj. complete, utter. ""what arrant nonsense!"" synonyms: utter, complete, total, absolute, downright, outright, thorough, out-and-out, sheer, pure, unmitigated, unqualified"
attrition	"/əˈtriSH(ə)n/ n. the action or process of gradually reducing the strength or effectiveness of someone or something through sustained attack or pressure. ""the council is trying to wear down the opposition by attrition"" synonyms: wearing down, wearing away, weakening, debilitation, enfeebling, sapping, attenuation; gradual loss ""the battle would result in further attrition of their already lame naval force""   n. wearing away by friction; abrasion. ""the skull shows attrition of the edges of the teeth"" synonyms: abrasion, friction, erosion, corrosion, corroding, grinding"
augment	"/ôɡˈment/ v. make (something) greater by adding to it; increase. ""he augmented his summer income by painting houses"" synonyms: increase, add to, supplement, build up, enlarge, expand, extend, raise, multiply, swell, grow antonyms: decrease"
auspicious	"/ôˈspiSHəs/ adj. conducive to success; favorable. ""it was not the most auspicious moment to hold an election"" synonyms: favorable, propitious, promising, rosy, good, encouraging"
avow	"/əˈvou/ v. assert or confess openly. ""he avowed that he had voted Republican in every election"" synonyms: assert, declare, state, maintain, swear, affirm, vow, insist"
banal	"/bəˈnäl/ adj. so lacking in originality as to be obvious and boring. ""songs with banal, repeated words"" synonyms: trite, hackneyed, clichéd, platitudinous, vapid, commonplace, ordinary, common, stock, conventional, stereotyped, overused, overdone, overworked, stale, worn out, timeworn, tired, threadbare, hoary, hack, unimaginative, humdrum, ho-hum, unoriginal, uninteresting, dull, uninvolving, trivial antonyms: original"
belabor	"/bəˈlābər/ v. argue or elaborate (a subject) in excessive detail. ""critics thought they belabored the obvious"" synonyms: overelaborate, labor, dwell on, harp on about, hammer away at antonyms: understate   v. attack or assault (someone) physically or verbally. ""Tyndale seized every opportunity to belabor the Roman Church"""
benign	"/bəˈnīn/ adj. gentle; kindly. ""her face was calm and benign"" synonyms: kindly, kind, warmhearted, good-natured, friendly, warm, affectionate, agreeable, genial, congenial, cordial, approachable, tenderhearted, gentle, sympathetic, compassionate, caring, well disposed, benevolent ""a benign grandfatherly role"" antonyms: unfriendly, hostile   adj. of a climate or environment) mild and favorable. synonyms: temperate, mild, gentle, balmy, soft, pleasant, favorable antonyms: harsh, unhealthy, unfavorable"
bereave	"/bəˈrēv/ v. be deprived of a loved one through a profound absence, especially due to the loved one's death. ""the year after they had been bereaved"""
blithe	"/blīTH/ adj. showing a casual and cheerful indifference considered to be callous or improper. ""a blithe disregard for the rules of the road"" synonyms: casual, indifferent, unconcerned, unworried, untroubled, uncaring, careless, heedless, thoughtless antonyms: thoughtful   adj. happy or joyous. ""a blithe seaside comedy"" synonyms: happy, cheerful, jolly, merry, joyful, joyous, blissful, ecstatic, euphoric, elated ""his blithe, smiling face"" antonyms: sad"
broach	"/brōCH/ v. raise (a sensitive or difficult subject) for discussion. ""he broached the subject he had been avoiding all evening"" synonyms: bring up, raise, introduce, talk about, mention, touch on, air ""I broached the matter with my parents"""
brook	"/bro͝ok/ v. tolerate or allow (something, typically dissent or opposition). ""Jenny would brook no criticism of Matthew"" synonyms: tolerate, allow, stand, bear, abide, put up with, endure"
callow	"/ˈkalō/ adj. (especially of a young person) inexperienced and immature. ""earnest and callow undergraduates"" synonyms: immature, inexperienced, juvenile, adolescent, naive, green, raw, untried, unworldly, unsophisticated ""she toyed with the emotions of Laughton when he was a callow and insecure young man"" antonyms: mature"
cavil	"/ˈkavəl/ v. make petty or unnecessary objections. ""they caviled at the cost"""
chagrin	"/SHəˈɡrin/ n. distress or embarrassment at having failed or been humiliated. ""Jeff, much to his chagrin, wasn't invited"" synonyms: annoyance, irritation, vexation, exasperation, displeasure, dissatisfaction, discontent antonyms: delight   v. feel distressed or humiliated. ""he was chagrined when his friend poured scorn on him"""
choleric	/kəˈlerik/ adj. bad-tempered or irritable. synonyms: bad-tempered, irascible, irritable, angry, grumpy, grouchy, crotchety, testy, cranky, crusty, cantankerous, curmudgeonly, ill-tempered, peevish, cross, fractious, crabbed, crabby, waspish, prickly, peppery, touchy, short-tempered antonyms: good-natured, affable
coda	/ˈkōdə/ n. the concluding passage of a piece or movement, typically forming an addition to the basic structure.
collusion	"/kəˈlo͞oZHən/ n. secret or illegal cooperation or conspiracy, especially in order to cheat or deceive others. ""the armed forces were working in collusion with drug traffickers"" synonyms: conspiracy, connivance, complicity, intrigue, plotting, secret understanding, collaboration, scheming ""there had been collusion between the security forces and paramilitary groups"""
commensurate	"/kəˈmenSHərət/ adj. corresponding in size or degree; in proportion. ""salary will be commensurate with experience"" synonyms: equivalent, equal, corresponding, correspondent, comparable, proportionate, proportional"
expound	"/ikˈspound/ v. present and explain (a theory or idea) systematically and in detail. ""he was expounding a powerful argument"" synonyms: present, put forward, set forth, propose, propound   v. explain the meaning of (a literary or doctrinal work). ""the abbess expounded the scriptures to her nuns"" synonyms: explain, interpret, explicate, elucidate"
expatiate	"/ikˈspāSHēˌāt/ v. speak or write at length or in detail. ""she expatiated on working-class novelists"" synonyms: speak/write at length, go into detail, expound, dwell, dilate, expand, enlarge, elaborate ""he expatiated on the topic of volunteerism"""
nostril	/ˈnästrəl/ n. either of two external openings of the nasal cavity in vertebrates that admit air to the lungs and smells to the olfactory nerves.
barge	"/bärj/ n. a flat-bottomed boat for carrying freight, typically on canals and rivers, either under its own power or towed by another. synonyms: lighter, canal boat, wherry, scow ""a barge carrying lumber and dry goods""   v. move forcefully or roughly. ""we can't just barge into a private garden"" synonyms: push, shove, force, elbow, shoulder, jostle, bulldoze, muscle ""he barged into us"""
conciliatory	"/kənˈsilēəˌtôrē/ adj. intended or likely to placate or pacify. ""a conciliatory approach"" synonyms: propitiatory, placatory, appeasing, pacifying, mollifying, peacemaking ""a conciliatory gesture"""
niche	"/niCH/ n. a shallow recess, especially one in a wall to display a statue or other ornament. synonyms: recess, alcove, nook, cranny, hollow, bay, cavity, cubbyhole, pigeonhole ""a niche in the wall""   n. a comfortable or suitable position in life or employment. ""he is now a partner at a leading law firm and feels he has found his niche"" synonyms: ideal position, place, function, vocation, calling, métier, job ""he found his niche in life""   adj. denoting or relating to products, services, or interests that appeal to a small, specialized section of the population. ""other companies in this space had to adapt to being niche players"""
ovation	"/ōˈvāSH(ə)n/ n. a sustained and enthusiastic show of appreciation from an audience, especially by means of applause. ""the performance received a thundering ovation"" synonyms: round of applause, applause, handclapping, clapping, cheering, cheers, bravos, acclaim, standing ovation, acclamation, praise, plaudits, laurels, tribute, accolade, bouquets"
riposte	"/rəˈpōst/  n. a quick clever reply to an insult or criticism. synonyms: retort, counter, rejoinder, sally, return, answer, reply, response ""an indignant riposte""   v. make a quick clever reply to an insult or criticism. ""“I'd have made lamb chops had I known you're a vegetarian,” Kris riposted"" synonyms: retort, counter, rejoin, return, retaliate, hurl back, answer, reply, respond, come back ""“Heaven help you,” riposted Alicia"""
outrage	"/ˈoutˌrāj/ v. arouse fierce anger, shock, or indignation in (someone). ""he was outraged at this attempt to take his victory away from him"" synonyms: enrage, infuriate, incense, anger, scandalize, offend, give offense to, affront, shock, horrify, disgust, appall ""his remarks outraged his parishioners""   v. violate or infringe flagrantly (a principle, law, etc.). ""their behavior outraged all civilized standards""   n. an extremely strong reaction of anger, shock, or indignation. ""her voice trembled with outrage"" synonyms: indignation, fury, anger, rage, disapproval, wrath, resentment ""widespread public outrage"""
jitter	"/ˈjidər/ n. feelings of extreme nervousness.  ""a bout of the jitters"" synonyms: nervousness, nerves, edginess, uneasiness, anxiety, anxiousness, tension, agitation, restlessness   n. slight irregular movement, variation, or unsteadiness, especially in an electrical signal or electronic device.   v. act nervously. ""an anxious student who jittered at any provocation"""
pillage	"/ˈpilij/ v. rob (a place) using violence, especially in wartime.   n. the action of pillaging a place or property, especially in wartime. synonyms: robbery, robbing, raiding, plunder, looting, sacking, rape, marauding ""the rebels were intent on pillage"""
parchment	/ˈpärCHmənt/ n. a stiff, flat, thin material made from the prepared skin of an animal and used as a durable writing surface in ancient and medieval times.
flurry	"/ˈflərē/ n. a small swirling mass of something, especially snow or leaves, moved by sudden gusts of wind. ""a flurry of snow"" synonyms: swirl, whirl, eddy, billow, shower, gust   v. (especially of snow or leaves) be moved in small swirling masses by sudden gusts of wind. ""gusts of snow flurried through the door"" synonyms: swirl, whirl, eddy, billow, gust, blast, blow, rush, wind, churn, swish, spin, twist, spurt, surge, seethe, stream, flow, puff, squall, squirt, boil"
hermit	/ˈhərmət/ n. a person living in solitude as a religious discipline. synonyms: recluse, solitary, loner, ascetic, marabout, troglodyte
sleuth	"/slo͞oTH/ n. a detective. synonyms: (private) detective, (private) investigator   v. carry out a search or investigation in the manner of a detective. ""scientists began their genetic sleuthing for honey mushrooms four years ago"""
glean	"/ɡlēn/ v. extract (information) from various sources. ""the information is gleaned from press clippings"" synonyms: obtain, get, take, draw, derive, extract, cull, garner, gather   v. collect gradually and bit by bit. ""objects gleaned from local markets"""
skimpy	"/ˈskimpē/ adj. (of clothes) short and revealing. ""a skimpy dress"" synonyms: revealing, short, low, low-cut   adj. providing or consisting of less than is needed; meager. ""my knowledge of music is extremely skimpy"" synonyms: meager, scanty, sketchy, limited, paltry, deficient, sparse ""my information is rather skimpy"""
extravagant	"/ikˈstravəɡənt/ adj. lacking restraint in spending money or using resources. ""it was rather extravagant to buy both"" synonyms: spendthrift, profligate, improvident, wasteful, prodigal, lavish ""an extravagant lifestyle""   adj. costing too much money. ""extravagant gifts like computer games"" synonyms: expensive, costly, lavish, high-priced, high-cost   adj. exceeding what is reasonable or appropriate; absurd. ""extravagant claims for its effectiveness"" synonyms: exorbitant, extortionate, excessive, high, unreasonable"
takeaway	"/ˈtākəˌwā/ n. a key fact, point, or idea to be remembered, typically one emerging from a discussion or meeting. ""the main takeaway for me is that we need to continue to communicate all the things we're doing for our customers"""
defuse	"/dēˈfyo͞oz/ v. reduce the danger or tension in (a difficult situation). ""he had the ability to defuse tense moments with humor"" synonyms: ease, calm, smooth over, take the heat out of, restore order in/to"
align	"/əˈlīn/ v. place or arrange (things) in a straight line. ""gently brush the surface to align the fibers"" synonyms: line up, put in order, put in rows/columns, straighten, place, position, situate, set, range ""the desks are aligned in straight rows""   v. give support to (a person, organization, or cause). ""newspapers usually align themselves with certain political parties"""
uphold	"/ˌəpˈhōld/ v. confirm or support (something that has been questioned). ""the court upheld his claim for damages"" synonyms: confirm, endorse, sustain, approve, agree to, support   v. maintain (a custom or practice). ""many furniture makers uphold the tradition of fine design"" synonyms: maintain, sustain, continue, preserve, protect, champion, defend, keep, hold to, keep alive, keep going, back (up), stand by ""they've a tradition to uphold"""
coffer	/ˈkôfər/ n. a strongbox or small chest for holding valuables. synonyms: strongbox, money box, cashbox, money chest, treasure chest, safe
outright	"/ˈoutrīt/ adv. altogether; completely. ""logging has been banned outright"" synonyms: completely, entirely, wholly, fully, totally, categorically, absolutely, utterly, flatly, unreservedly, in every respect ""he rejected the proposal outright""   adv. immediately. ""the impact killed four horses outright"" synonyms: instantly, instantaneously, immediately, at once, straightaway, then and there, on the spot ""they were killed outright""   adj. open and direct; not concealed. ""an outright refusal"" synonyms: out-and-out, absolute, complete, downright, utter, sheer, categorical, unqualified, unmitigated, unconditional ""an outright lie"""
hinge	"/hinj/ n. a movable joint or mechanism on which a door, gate, or lid swings as it opens and closes, or that connects linked objects.   v. attach or join with or as if with a hinge. ""the ironing board was set into the wall and hinged at the bottom"""
kink	"/kiNGk/ n. a sharp twist or curve in something that is otherwise straight. ""a kink in the road"" synonyms: curl, twist, twirl, loop, crinkle   v. form or cause to form a sharp twist or curve. ""the river kinks violently in a right angle"""
deflate	"/dəˈflāt/ v. let air or gas out of (a tire, balloon, or similar object). ""he deflated one of the tires"" synonyms: let down, flatten, void; puncture ""he deflated the tires""   v. cause (someone) to suddenly lose confidence or feel less important. ""the news left him feeling utterly deflated"" synonyms: subdue, humble, cow, chasten"
elusive	"/ēˈlo͞osiv/  adj. difficult to find, catch, or achieve. ""success will become ever more elusive"" synonyms: difficult to find   adj. difficult to remember or recall. ""the elusive thought he had had moments before"" synonyms: indefinable, intangible, impalpable, ambiguous ""an elusive quality"""
allegiance	"/əˈlējəns/ n. loyalty or commitment of a subordinate to a superior or of an individual to a group or cause. ""those wishing to receive citizenship must swear allegiance to the republic"" synonyms: loyalty, faithfulness, fidelity, obedience, homage, devotion"
embroil	"/imˈbroil/ v. involve (someone) deeply in an argument, conflict, or difficult situation. ""she became embroiled in a dispute between two women she hardly knew"" synonyms: involve, entangle, ensnare, enmesh, catch up, mix up, bog down, mire ""I don't want to get embroiled in your crazy schemes"""
tip	"/tip/ v. overbalance or cause to overbalance so as to fall or turn over. ""the hay caught fire when the candle tipped over"" synonyms: overturn, turn over, topple (over), fall (over)   v. be or cause to be in a sloping position with one end or side higher than the other. ""I tipped my seat back, preparing myself for sleep"" synonyms: lean, tilt, list, slope, bank, slant, incline, pitch, cant, heel, careen ""the car tipped to one side""   v. strike or touch lightly. ""I tipped his hoof with the handle of a knife"""
convivial	/kənˈvivēəl/ adj. (of a person) cheerful and friendly; jovial. synonyms: friendly, genial, affable, amiable, congenial, agreeable, good-humored, cordial, warm, sociable, outgoing, gregarious, companionable, clubby, hail-fellow-well-met, cheerful, jolly, jovial, lively
participle	/ˈpärdəˌsip(ə)l/ n. a word formed from a verb (e.g., going, gone, being, been ) and used as an adjective (e.g., working woman, burned toast ) or a noun (e.g., good breeding ). In English, participles are also used to make compound verb forms (e.g., is going, has been ).
dour	"/ˈdou(ə)r/ adj. relentlessly severe, stern, or gloomy in manner or appearance. ""a hard, dour, humorless fanatic"" synonyms: stern, unsmiling, unfriendly, severe, forbidding, gruff, surly, grim, sullen, solemn, austere, stony ""they were barely acknowledged by the dour receptionist"""
flinty	"/ˈflin(t)ē/ adj. of, containing, or reminiscent of flint. ""flinty soil""   adj. (of a person or their expression) very hard and unyielding. ""a flinty stare"""
abide	"/əˈbīd/ v. accept or act in accordance with (a rule, decision, or recommendation). ""I said I would abide by their decision"" synonyms: comply with, obey, observe, follow, keep to, hold to, conform to, adhere to, stick to, stand by, act in accordance with, uphold, heed, accept, go along with, acknowledge, respect, defer to ""he expected everybody to abide by the rules""   v. be able to tolerate (someone or something). ""if there is one thing I cannot abide it is a lack of discipline"" synonyms: tolerate, bear, stand, put up with, endure, take, countenance"
consecrate	"/ˈkänsəˌkrāt/ v. make or declare (something, typically a church) sacred; dedicate formally to a religious or divine purpose. ""the present Holy Trinity church was consecrated in 1845"""
consonant	"/ˈkänsənənt/ n. a basic speech sound in which the breath is at least partly obstructed and which can be combined with a vowel to form a syllable.   adj. denoting or relating to a consonant sound or letter. ""a consonant phoneme""   adj. in agreement or harmony with. ""the findings are consonant with other research"" synonyms: in agreement with, consistent with, in accordance with, in harmony with, compatible with, congruous with, in tune with ""these findings are consonant with recent research"""
consummate	"/ˈkänsəˌmāt/ v. complete (a transaction or attempt); make perfect. ""his scheme of colonization was consummated through bloodshed"" synonyms: complete, conclude, finish, accomplish, achieve   adj. showing a high degree of skill and flair; complete or perfect. ""she dressed with consummate elegance"" synonyms: supreme, superb, superlative, superior, accomplished, expert, proficient, skillful, skilled, masterly, master, first-class, talented, gifted, polished, practiced, perfect, ultimate"
contumely	"/ˈkäntyo͝oməlē/ n. insolent or insulting language or treatment. ""the church should not be exposed to gossip and contumely"""
copious	"/ˈkōpēəs/ adj. abundant in supply or quantity. ""she took copious notes"" synonyms: abundant, superabundant, plentiful, ample, profuse, full, extensive, generous, bumper, lavish, fulsome, liberal, overflowing, in abundance, many, numerous"
corroborate	"/kəˈräbəˌrāt/ v. confirm or give support to (a statement, theory, or finding). ""the witness had corroborated the boy's account of the attack"" synonyms: confirm, verify, endorse, ratify, authenticate, validate, certify antonyms: contradict"
coterie	"/ˈkōdərē/ n. a small group of people with shared interests or tastes, especially one that is exclusive of other people. ""a coterie of friends and advisers"" synonyms: clique, set, circle, inner circle, crowd, in-crowd, band, community, gang ""a coterie of kindred spirits"""
countenance	"/ˈkount(ə)nəns/ n. a person's face or facial expression. ""his impenetrable eyes and inscrutable countenance give little away"" synonyms: face, features, physiognomy, profile   v. admit as acceptable or possible. ""he was reluctant to countenance the use of force"" synonyms: tolerate, permit, allow, agree to, consent to, give one's blessing to, go along with, hold with, put up with, endure, stomach, swallow, stand for ""he would not countenance the use of force"""
covet	"/ˈkəvət/ v. yearn to possess or have (something). ""the president-elect covets time for exercise and fishing"" synonyms: desire, yearn for, crave, have one's heart set on, want, wish for, long for, hanker after/for, hunger after/for, thirst for ""even with all they have, they covet the wealth of others"""
cursory	"/ˈkərs(ə)rē/ adj. hasty and therefore not thorough or detailed. ""a cursory glance at the figures"" synonyms: perfunctory, desultory, casual, superficial, token antonyms: thorough"
daunt	"/dänt/ v. make (someone) feel intimidated or apprehensive. ""some people are daunted by technology"" synonyms: discourage, deter, demoralize, put off, dishearten, dispirit antonyms: hearten"
debacle	"/dəˈbäk(ə)l/ n. a sudden and ignominious failure; a fiasco. ""the economic debacle that became known as the Great Depression"" synonyms: fiasco, failure, catastrophe, disaster, mess, ruin"
debauchery	/dəˈbôCHərē/ n. excessive indulgence in sensual pleasures. synonyms: dissipation, degeneracy, corruption, vice, depravity
decorous	"/ˈdekərəs/ adj. in keeping with good taste and propriety; polite and restrained. ""dancing with decorous space between partners"" synonyms: proper, seemly, decent, becoming, befitting, tasteful antonyms: unseemly"
deleterious	"/ˌdeləˈtirēəs/ adj. causing harm or damage. ""divorce is assumed to have deleterious effects on children"" synonyms: harmful, damaging, detrimental, injurious antonyms: beneficial"
deprecate	"/ˈdeprəˌkāt/ v. express disapproval of. ""he sniffed in a deprecating way"" synonyms: deplore, abhor, disapprove of, frown on, take a dim view of, take exception to, detest, despise antonyms: praise, overrate   v. (chiefly of a software feature) be usable but regarded as obsolete and best avoided, typically due to having been superseded. ""this feature is deprecated and will be removed in later versions"""
dilapidated	/dəˈlapəˌdādəd/adj. (of a building or object) in a state of disrepair or ruin as a result of age or neglect. synonyms: run-down, tumbledown, ramshackle, broken-down, in disrepair, shabby, battered, beat-up, rickety, shaky, unsound, crumbling, in ruins, ruined, decayed, decaying, decrepit
discomfit	"/disˈkəmfət/ v. make (someone) feel uneasy or embarrassed. ""he was not noticeably discomfited by her tone"" synonyms: embarrass, abash, disconcert, discompose, discomfort, take aback, unsettle, unnerve, put someone off their game, ruffle, confuse, fluster, agitate, disorient, upset, disturb, perturb, distress"
discourse	"/disˈkôrs/ v. speak or write authoritatively about a topic. ""she could discourse at great length on the history of Europe"" synonyms: hold forth, expatiate, pontificate   v. engage in conversation. ""he spent an hour discoursing with his supporters in the courtroom"" synonyms: converse, talk, speak, debate, confer, consult, parley, chat ""Edward was discoursing with his friends"""
doggerel	"/ˈdôɡərəl/ n. verse or words that are badly written or expressed. ""the last stanza deteriorates into doggerel"""
egregious	"/əˈɡrējəs/ adj. outstandingly bad; shocking. ""egregious abuses of copyright"" synonyms: shocking, appalling, terrible, awful, horrendous, frightful, atrocious, abominable, abhorrent, outrageous antonyms: marvelous"
elucidate	"/ēˈlo͞osəˌdāt/ v. make (something) clear; explain. ""work such as theirs will help to elucidate this matter"" synonyms: explain, make clear, illuminate, throw/shed light on, clarify, clear up, sort out, unravel, spell out antonyms: confuse"
enormity	"/iˈnôrmədē/ n. the great or extreme scale, seriousness, or extent of something perceived as bad or morally wrong. ""a thorough search disclosed the full enormity of the crime""   n. a grave crime or sin. ""the enormities of the regime"" synonyms: wickedness, evil, vileness, baseness, depravity"
epicure	"/ˈepəˌkyo͝or/ n. a person who takes particular pleasure in fine food and drink. synonyms: gourmet, gastronome, gourmand, connoisseur ""she sipped at the water as an epicure would savor a good wine"""
equanimity	"/ˌekwəˈnimədē/ n. mental calmness, composure, and evenness of temper, especially in a difficult situation.  ""she accepted both the good and the bad with equanimity"" synonyms: composure, calm, level-headedness, self-possession, coolheadedness, presence of mind antonyms: anxiety"
epitome	"/əˈpidəmē/ n. a person or thing that is a perfect example of a particular quality or type. ""she looked the epitome of elegance and good taste"" synonyms: personification, embodiment, incarnation, paragon   n. a summary of a written work; an abstract."
eschew	"/əsˈCHo͞o/v. deliberately avoid using; abstain from. ""he appealed to the crowd to eschew violence"" synonyms: abstain from, refrain from, give up, forgo, shun, renounce, steer clear of, have nothing to do with, fight shy of"
espouse	"/iˈspouz/ v. adopt or support (a cause, belief, or way of life). ""he turned his back on the modernism he had espoused in his youth"" synonyms: adopt, embrace, take up, accept, welcome antonyms: reject"
evince	"/əˈvins/ v. reveal the presence of (a quality or feeling). ""his letters evince the excitement he felt at undertaking this journey""   v. be evidence of; indicate. ""man's inhumanity to man as evinced in the use of torture"" synonyms: reveal, show, make plain, manifest, indicate, display, exhibit, demonstrate, evidence, attest to antonyms: conceal"
exhort	"/iɡˈzôrt/ v. strongly encourage or urge (someone) to do something. ""the media have been exhorting people to turn out for the demonstration"" synonyms: urge, encourage, call on, enjoin, charge, press"
exposition	"/ˌekspəˈziSH(ə)n/ n. a comprehensive description and explanation of an idea or theory. ""the exposition and defense of his ethics"" synonyms: explanation, description, elucidation, explication, interpretation   n. a large public exhibition of art or trade goods. synonyms: exhibition, fair, trade fair, trade show, show, expo, display, presentation, demonstration, exhibit ""the exposition will feature 200 exhibits"""
facile	"/ˈfasəl/ adj. (especially of a theory or argument) appearing neat and comprehensive only by ignoring the true complexities of an issue; superficial. synonyms: simplistic, superficial, oversimplified   adj. (especially of success in sports) easily achieved; effortless. synonyms: effortless, easy, undemanding, unexacting, painless, trouble-free ""he achieved a facile victory"""
fatuous	"/ˈfaCHo͞oəs/ adj. silly and pointless. ""a fatuous comment"" synonyms: silly, foolish, stupid, inane, idiotic, vacuous, asinine antonyms: sensible"
fetter	"/ˈfedər/ v. restrain with chains or manacles, typically around the ankles. ""a ragged and fettered prisoner"" synonyms: shackle, manacle, handcuff, clap in irons, put in chains, chain (up)   v. restrict or restrain (someone) in an unfair or undesirable fashion. ""he was not fettered by tradition"" synonyms: restrict, restrain, constrain, limit"
detention	"/dəˈten(t)SH(ə)n/ n. the action of detaining someone or the state of being detained in official custody, especially as a political prisoner. ""one of the effects of police detention is isolation from friends and family"" synonyms: custody, imprisonment, confinement, incarceration, internment, detainment, captivity   n. the punishment of being kept in school after hours. ""he has made students fear after-school detention"""
bash	"/baSH/ v. strike hard and violently. ""bash a mosquito with a newspaper"" synonyms: strike, hit, beat, thump, slap, smack, bang, knock, batter, pound, pummel   v. damage or break something by striking it violently. ""the car's rear window had been bashed in""   v. collide with. ""the other vehicle bashed into the back of them"" synonyms: crash into, run into, bang into, smash into, slam into, knock into, bump into"
flee	"/flē/ v. run away from a place or situation of danger. ""a man was shot twice as he fled from five masked youths"" synonyms: run (away/off), run for it, make a run for it, dash, take flight, be gone, make off, take off, take to one's heels, make a break for it, bolt, beat a (hasty) retreat, make a quick exit, make one's getaway, escape"
salute	"/səˈlo͞ot/ n. a gesture of respect, homage, or polite recognition or acknowledgment, especially one made to or by a person when arriving or departing. ""he raises his arms in a triumphant salute"" synonyms: greeting, salutation, gesture of respect, obeisance, acknowledgment, welcome, address ""he gave the captain a salute"""
sleazy	/ˈslēzē/ adj. (of a person or situation) sordid, corrupt, or immoral. synonyms: corrupt, immoral, unsavory, disreputable
spawn	"/spôn/ v. (of a fish, frog, mollusk, crustacean, etc.) release or deposit eggs. ""the fish spawn among fine-leaved plants"""
basalt	/bəˈsôlt/ n. a dark, fine-grained volcanic rock that sometimes displays a columnar structure. It is typically composed largely of plagioclase with pyroxene and olivine.
lump	"/ləmp/ v. put in an indiscriminate mass or group; treat as alike without regard for particulars. ""Hong Kong and Bangkok tend to be lumped together in travel brochures"" synonyms: combine, put together, group, bunch, aggregate, unite, pool, merge, collect, throw together, consider together ""it is out of ignorance that they lump together all modern artists""   v. proceed heavily or awkwardly. ""I came lumping along behind him"""
credence	"/ˈkrēdəns/ n. belief in or acceptance of something as true. ""psychoanalysis finds little credence among laymen"" synonyms: belief, faith, trust, confidence, reliance ""the government placed little credence in the scheme"""
enviable	"/ˈenvēəb(ə)l/adj. arousing or likely to arouse envy. ""an enviable reputation for academic achievement"" synonyms: desirable, desired, favored, sought-after, admirable, covetable, attractive"
borehole	/ˈbôrˌhōl/ n. a deep, narrow hole made in the ground, especially to locate water or oil.
deed	"/dēd/ n. a legal document that is signed and delivered, especially one regarding the ownership of property or legal rights. synonyms: legal document, contract, indenture, instrument ""a deed to the property""   v. convey or transfer (property or rights) by legal deed. ""they deeded their property to their children"""
prescribe	"/prəˈskrīb/ v. recommend (a substance or action) as something beneficial. ""marriage is often prescribed as a universal remedy"" synonyms: advise, recommend, advocate, suggest, endorse, champion, promote ""traditional values prescribe a life of domesticity""   v. state authoritatively or as a rule that (an action or procedure) should be carried out. ""rules prescribing five acts for a play are purely arbitrary"" synonyms: stipulate, lay down, dictate, specify, determine, establish, fix ""rules prescribing your duty"""
suave	"/swäv/ adj. (especially of a man) charming, confident, and elegant. ""all the waiters were suave and deferential"" synonyms: charming, sophisticated, debonair, urbane, polished, refined, poised, self-possessed, dignified, civilized, gentlemanly, gallant"
parsimonious	"/ˌpärsəˈmōnēəs/ adj. unwilling to spend money or use resources; stingy or frugal. ""parsimonious New Hampshire voters, who have a phobia about taxes"" synonyms: cheap, miserly, mean, niggardly, close-fisted, close, penny-pinching, ungenerous, Scroogelike"
supersede	"/ˌso͞opərˈsēd/ v. take the place of (a person or thing previously in authority or use); supplant. ""the older models have now been superseded"" synonyms: replace, take the place of, take over from, succeed"
formidable	"/ˈfôrmədəb(ə)l/ adj. inspiring fear or respect through being impressively large, powerful, intense, or capable. ""a formidable opponent"" synonyms: intimidating, forbidding, daunting, disturbing, alarming, frightening, disquieting, brooding, awesome, fearsome, ominous, foreboding, sinister, menacing, threatening, dangerous"
tramp	"/tramp/ v. walk heavily or noisily. ""he tramped around the room""   n. a person who travels from place to place on foot in search of work or as a vagrant or beggar. synonyms: vagrant, vagabond, street person, hobo, homeless person, down-and-out   n. the sound of heavy steps, typically of several people. ""the tramp of marching feet"" synonyms: footstep, tromp, step, footfall, tread, stamp, stomp ""the regular tramp of the sentry's boots"""
meritocracy	/ˌmerəˈtäkrəsē/ n. government or the holding of power by people selected on the basis of their ability.   n. a ruling or influential class of educated or skilled people.
appall	"/əˈpôl/v. greatly dismay or horrify. ""bankers are appalled at the economic incompetence of some officials"" synonyms: horrify, shock, dismay, distress, outrage, scandalize"
taper	"/ˈtāpər/ v. diminish or reduce or cause to diminish or reduce in thickness toward one end. ""the tail tapers to a rounded tip"" synonyms: narrow, thin (out), come to a point, attenuate ""the leaves taper at the tip""   v. gradually lessen. ""the impact of the dollar's depreciation started to taper off"" synonyms: decrease, lessen, dwindle, diminish, reduce, decline, die down, peter out, wane, ebb, slacken (off), fall off, let up, thin out ""the meetings soon tapered off"""
sullen	"/ˈsələn/ adj. bad-tempered and sulky; gloomy. ""a sullen pout"" synonyms: surly, sulky, pouting, sour, morose, resentful, glum, moody, gloomy, grumpy, bad-tempered, ill-tempered"
subtend	/səbˈtend/ v. (of a line, arc, or figure) form (an angle) at a particular point when straight lines from its extremities are joined at that point.
warp	"/wôrp/ v. become or cause to become bent or twisted out of shape, typically as a result of the effects of heat or dampness. ""wood has a tendency to warp"" synonyms: buckle, twist, bend, distort, deform, misshape, skew, curve, bow, contort ""lumber that is too dry will warp"""
faction	"/ˈfakSH(ə)n/ n. a small, organized, dissenting group within a larger one, especially in politics. ""the left-wing faction of the party"" synonyms: clique, coterie, caucus, cabal, bloc, camp, group, grouping, sector, section, wing, arm, branch, set   n. a state of conflict within an organization; dissension. synonyms: infighting, dissension, dissent, dispute, discord, strife, conflict, friction, argument, disagreement, controversy, quarreling, wrangling, bickering, squabbling, disharmony, disunity, schism ""the council was split by faction"""
thug	/THəɡ/ n. a violent person, especially a criminal. synonyms: ruffian, hooligan, vandal, hoodlum, gangster, villain, criminal
hail	"/hāl/ v. call out to (someone) to attract attention. ""the crew hailed a fishing boat"" synonyms: call out to, shout to, address   v. acclaim enthusiastically as being a specified thing. ""he has been hailed as the new James Dean"" synonyms: acclaim, praise, applaud, rave about, extol, eulogize, hymn, lionize, sing the praises of, make much of, glorify, cheer, salute, toast, ballyhoo ""critics hailed the film as a masterpiece""   v. have one's home or origins in (a place). ""he hails from Pittsburgh"" synonyms: come from, be from, be a native of, have one's roots in ""Rick hails from Australia"""
bailout	/ˈbāˌlout/ n. an act of giving financial assistance to a failing business or economy to save it from collapse.
heckle	"/ˈhek(ə)l/ v. interrupt (a public speaker) with derisive or aggressive comments or abuse. ""he was booed and heckled when he tried to address the demonstrators"" synonyms: jeer, taunt, jibe at, shout down, boo, hiss, harass ""he was heckled by the drunk in the back of the room"""
galvanize	"/ˈɡalvəˌnīz/ v. shock or excite (someone), typically into taking action. ""the urgency of his voice galvanized them into action"" synonyms: jolt, shock, startle, impel, stir, spur, prod, urge, motivate, stimulate, electrify, excite, rouse, arouse, awaken   v. coat (iron or steel) with a protective layer of zinc. ""an old galvanized bucket"""
fling	"/fliNG/ v. throw or hurl forcefully. ""he picked up the debris and flung it away"" synonyms: throw, toss, sling, hurl, cast, pitch, lob   n. a short period of enjoyment or wild behavior. ""one final fling before a tranquil retirement"" synonyms: good time, spree, bit of fun, night on the town"
gobble	"/ˈɡäbəl/ v. eat (something) hurriedly and noisily. ""one man gobbled up a burger"" synonyms: eat greedily, eat hungrily, guzzle, bolt, gulp (down), devour, wolf (down), gorge (oneself) on   v. (of a large organization or other body) incorporate or take over (a smaller one). ""he amassed his packaging empire by gobbling up National Can Corporation"""
pepper	"/ˈpepər/ v. sprinkle or season (food) with pepper. ""peppered beef"" synonyms: add pepper to, season, flavor ""salt and pepper the potatoes""   v. hit repeatedly with small missiles or gunshot. ""another burst of enemy bullets peppered his defenseless body"" synonyms: bombard, pelt, shower, rain down on, attack, assail, batter, strafe, rake, blitz, hit ""a burst of bullets peppered the tank"""
burp	/bərp/ v. noisily release air from the stomach through the mouth synonyms: belch
exemption	"/iɡˈzem(p)SH(ə)n/ n. the process of freeing or state of being free from an obligation or liability imposed on others. ""exemption from prescription charges"" synonyms: immunity, exception, dispensation, indemnity, exclusion, freedom, release, relief, absolution ""exemption from the road tax"""
buffoon	/bəˈfo͞on/ n. a ridiculous but amusing person; a clown. synonyms: clown, jester, fool, comic, comedian, wag, wit, merry andrew, harlequin, Punchinello, Pierrot
disciple	"/dəˈsīpəl/ n. a follower or student of a teacher, leader, or philosopher. ""a disciple of Rousseau"" synonyms: follower, adherent, believer, admirer, devotee, acolyte, votary"
ammunition	"/ˌamyəˈniSH(ə)n/ n. a supply or quantity of bullets and shells. synonyms: bullets, shells, projectiles, missiles, rounds, shot, slugs, cartridges, munitions ""police seized arms and ammunition""   n. considerations that can be used to support one's case in debate. ""these figures provide ammunition to the argument for more resources"""
decency	"/ˈdēsənsē/ n. behavior that conforms to accepted standards of morality or respectability. ""she had the decency to come and confess"" synonyms: propriety, decorum, good taste, respectability, dignity, correctness, good form, etiquette"
flag	"/flaɡ/ v. (of a person) become tired, weaker, or less enthusiastic. ""if you begin to flag, there is an excellent café to revive you"" synonyms: tire, grow tired/weary, weaken, grow weak, wilt, droop, fade, run out of steam antonyms: revive, increase"
flippant	"/ˈflipənt/ adj. not showing a serious or respectful attitude. ""a flippant remark"" synonyms: frivolous, facetious, tongue-in-cheek antonyms: serious, respectful"
foment	"/ˌfōˈment/  v. instigate or stir up (an undesirable or violent sentiment or course of action). ""they accused him of fomenting political unrest"" synonyms: instigate, incite, provoke, agitate, excite, stir up, whip up, encourage, urge, fan the flames of ""they were accused of fomenting civil unrest"""
forbear	"/fôrˈber/ v. politely or patiently restrain an impulse to do something; refrain. ""the boy forbore from touching anything"" synonyms: refrain from, abstain from, desist from, keep from, restrain oneself from, stop oneself from, hold back from, withhold from antonyms: persist"
founder	"/ˈfoundər/ v. (of a ship) fill with water and sink. ""six drowned when the yacht foundered off the Florida coast"" synonyms: sink, go to the bottom, go down, be lost at sea ""the ship foundered""   v. (of a plan or undertaking) fail or break down, typically as a result of a particular problem or setback. ""the talks foundered on the issue of reform"" synonyms: fail, be unsuccessful, not succeed, fall flat, fall through, collapse, backfire, meet with disaster, come to nothing, come to naught antonyms: succeed"
fulsome	"/ˈfo͝olsəm/ adj. complimentary or flattering to an excessive degree. ""they are almost embarrassingly fulsome in their appreciation"" synonyms: excessive, extravagant, overdone, immoderate, inordinate, over-appreciative, flattering, adulatory, fawning, unctuous, ingratiating, cloying, saccharine"
gainsay	"/ˌɡānˈsā/ v. deny or contradict (a fact or statement). ""the impact of the railroads cannot be gainsaid"" synonyms: deny, dispute, disagree with, argue with, dissent from, contradict, repudiate, challenge, oppose, contest, counter, controvert, rebut ""it was difficult to gainsay his claim"" antonyms: confirm   v. speak against or oppose (someone)."
gambit	"/ˈɡambət/ n. a device, action, or opening remark, typically one entailing a degree of risk, that is calculated to gain an advantage. ""his resignation was a tactical gambit"" synonyms: stratagem, scheme, plan, tactic, maneuver, move, course/line of action, device"
genial	"/ˈjēnyəl/ adj. friendly and cheerful. ""waved to them in genial greeting"" synonyms: friendly, affable, cordial, amiable, warm, easygoing, approachable, sympathetic antonyms: unfriendly"
gratis	"/ˈɡradəs/ adv. without charge; free. ""a monthly program was issued gratis"" synonyms: free, free of charge, without charge, for nothing, at no cost, gratuitously   adj. given or done for nothing; free. ""gratis copies"""
gratuitous	"/ɡrəˈt(y)o͞oədəs/ adj. uncalled for; lacking good reason; unwarranted. ""gratuitous violence"" synonyms: unjustified, uncalled for, unwarranted, unprovoked, undue antonyms: necessary   adj. given or done free of charge. ""solicitors provide a form of gratuitous legal advice"""
guile	"/ɡīl/ n. sly or cunning intelligence. ""he used all his guile and guts to free himself from the muddle he was in"" synonyms: cunning, craftiness, craft, artfulness, art, artifice, wiliness, slyness, deviousness antonyms: honesty"
harbinger	"/ˈhärbənjər/ n. a person or thing that announces or signals the approach of another. ""witch hazels are the harbingers of spring"" synonyms: herald, sign, indication, signal, portent, omen, augury, forewarning, presage   n. a forerunner of something. ""these works were not yet opera, but they were the most important harbinger of opera"""
hermetic	"/hərˈmedik/ adj. (of a seal or closure) complete and airtight. ""a hermetic seal that ensures perfect waterproofing"" synonyms: airtight, tight, sealed, zip-locked, vacuum-packed   adj. insulated or protected from outside influences. ""a hermetic society"""
ignominy	"/ˈiɡnəˌminē/ n. public shame or disgrace. ""the ignominy of being imprisoned"" synonyms: shame, humiliation, embarrassment, mortification"
impromptu	"/imˈpräm(p)ˌt(y)o͞o/ adj. done without being planned, organized, or rehearsed. ""an impromptu press conference"" synonyms: unrehearsed, unprepared, unscripted, extempore, extemporized, extemporaneous, improvised, spontaneous, unplanned antonyms: prepared, rehearsed"
incandescent	"/ˌinkənˈdes(ə)nt/ adj. emitting light as a result of being heated. ""plumes of incandescent liquid rock"" synonyms: white-hot, red-hot, burning, fiery, blazing, ablaze, aflame   adj. passionate or brilliant. ""Mravinsky's incandescent performance of Siegfried's Funeral March"" synonyms: passionate, ardent, fervent, fervid, intense, impassioned, spirited, fiery ""an incandescent speech"""
incorrigible	"/inˈkôrəjəb(ə)l/ adj. (of a person or their tendencies) not able to be corrected, improved, or reformed. ""she's an incorrigible flirt"" synonyms: inveterate, habitual, confirmed, hardened, dyed-in-the-wool, incurable, chronic, irredeemable, hopeless, beyond hope antonyms: repentant"
indolent	/ˈindələnt/ adj. wanting to avoid activity or exertion; lazy. synonyms: lazy, idle, slothful, loafing, do-nothing, sluggardly, shiftless, lackadaisical, languid, inactive, underactive, inert, sluggish, lethargic, torpid antonyms: industrious, energetic
indulgent	"/inˈdəljənt/ adj. having or indicating a tendency to be overly generous to or lenient with someone. ""indulgent parents"" synonyms: permissive, easygoing, liberal, tolerant, forgiving, forbearing, lenient, kind, kindly, generous, softhearted, compassionate, understanding, sympathetic antonyms: strict"
lenient	"/ˈlēnēənt/ adj. (of punishment or a person in authority) permissive, merciful, or tolerant. ""judges were far too lenient with petty criminals"" synonyms: merciful, clement, forgiving, forbearing, tolerant, charitable, humane, indulgent, easygoing, magnanimous, sympathetic, compassionate, mild ""Brother Andrew was a lenient teacher"" antonyms: severe"
ineluctable	"/ˌinəˈləktəb(ə)l/ adj. unable to be resisted or avoided; inescapable. ""the ineluctable facts of history"""
inept	"/iˈnept/ adj. having or showing no skill; clumsy. ""the inept handling of the threat"" synonyms: incompetent, unskillful, unskilled, inexpert, amateurish antonyms: competent"
inexorable	"/ˌinˈeksərəb(ə)l/ adj. impossible to stop or prevent. ""the seemingly inexorable march of new technology"" synonyms: relentless, unstoppable, inescapable, inevitable, unavoidable, irrevocable, unalterable   adj. (of a person) impossible to persuade by request or entreaty. ""the doctors were inexorable, and there was nothing to be done"" synonyms: intransigent, unbending, unyielding, inflexible, adamant, obdurate, immovable, unshakable"
inveterate	"/inˈvedərət/ adj. having a particular habit, activity, or interest that is long-established and unlikely to change. ""he was an inveterate gambler"" synonyms: ingrained, deep-seated, deep-rooted, entrenched, congenital, ineradicable, incurable ""inveterate corruption""   adj. (of a feeling or habit) long-established and unlikely to change. synonyms: confirmed, hardened, incorrigible, addicted, habitual, compulsive, obsessive"
itinerant	"/iˈtinərənt/ adj. traveling from place to place. synonyms: traveling, peripatetic, wandering, roving, roaming, touring, saddlebag, nomadic, gypsy, migrant, vagrant, vagabond, of no fixed address ""itinerant traders"""
judicious	"/jo͞oˈdiSHəs/ adj. having, showing, or done with good judgment or sense. ""the efficient and judicious use of pesticides"" synonyms: wise, sensible, prudent, politic, shrewd, astute, canny, sagacious, commonsensical, sound, well advised, discerning, percipient, intelligent, smart ""following a judicious course of action"" antonyms: ill-advised"
lament	"/ləˈment/ v. mourn (a person's loss or death). ""he was lamenting the death of his infant daughter"" synonyms: mourn, grieve, sorrow, wail, weep, cry, sob, keen, beat one's breast ""the mourners lamented"" antonyms: celebrate, rejoice"
largesse	"/lärˈjes/ n. generosity in bestowing money or gifts upon others. ""dispensing his money with such largesse"" synonyms: generosity, liberality, munificence, bounty, bountifulness, beneficence, altruism, charity, philanthropy, magnanimity, benevolence, charitableness, openhandedness, kindness, big-heartedness ""Bob took advantage of his friend's largesse"" antonyms: stinginess   n. money or gifts given generously. ""the distribution of largesse to the local population"" synonyms: gifts, presents, handouts, grants, aid"
lascivious	"/ləˈsivēəs/ adj. (of a person, manner, or gesture) feeling or revealing an overt and often offensive sexual desire. ""he gave her a lascivious wink"" synonyms: lecherous, lewd, lustful, licentious, libidinous, salacious, lubricious, prurient, dirty, smutty, naughty, indecent, ribald"
latent	"/ˈlātnt/ adj. (of a quality or state) existing but not yet developed or manifest; hidden; concealed. ""discovering her latent talent for diplomacy"" synonyms: dormant, untapped, unused, undiscovered, hidden, concealed, underlying, invisible, unseen, undeveloped, unrealized, unfulfilled, potential ""his latent skills""   adj. (of a disease) in which the usual symptoms are not yet manifest."
levee	/ˈlevē/n. an embankment built to prevent the overflow of a river.
levity	"/ˈlevədē/ n. humor or frivolity, especially the treatment of a serious matter with humor or in a manner lacking due respect. ""as an attempt to introduce a note of levity, the words were a disastrous flop"" synonyms: lightheartedness, high spirits, vivacity, liveliness, cheerfulness, cheeriness, humor, gaiety, fun, jocularity, hilarity, frivolity, amusement, mirth, laughter, merriment, glee, comedy, wit, wittiness, jollity, joviality ""without some occasional levity, the working environment is no better than a sweatshop"" antonyms: seriousness"
licentious	/līˈsenSHəs/ adj. promiscuous and unprincipled in sexual matters. synonyms: dissolute, dissipated, debauched, degenerate, immoral, naughty, wanton, decadent, depraved, sinful, corrupt antonyms: moral
magnate	"/ˈmaɡˌnāt/ n. a wealthy and influential person, especially in business. ""a media magnate"" synonyms: tycoon, mogul, captain of industry, baron, lord, king, magnifico"
maudlin	"/ˈmôdlən/adj. self-pityingly or tearfully sentimental, often through drunkenness. ""the drink made her maudlin"" synonyms: sentimental, oversentimental, emotional, overemotional, tearful, lachrymose"
maxim	"/ˈmaksəm/ n. a short, pithy statement expressing a general truth or rule of conduct. ""the maxim that actions speak louder than words"" synonyms: saying, adage, aphorism, proverb, motto, saw, axiom, dictum, precept, epigram"
mendicant	/ˈmendəkənt/ n. a beggar.
noisome	"/ˈnoisəm/ adj. having an extremely offensive smell. ""noisome vapors from the smoldering waste""   adj. disagreeable; unpleasant. ""noisome scandals"""
nominal	"/ˈnämən(ə)l/ adj. (of a role or status) existing in name only. ""Thailand retained nominal independence under Japanese military occupation"" synonyms: in name only, titular, formal, official antonyms: real   adj. (of a price or amount of money) very small; far below the real value or cost. ""some firms charge only a nominal fee for the service"" synonyms: token, symbolic antonyms: considerable"
novel	"/ˈnävəl/ adj. new or unusual in an interesting way. ""he hit on a novel idea to solve his financial problems"" synonyms: new, original, unusual, unfamiliar, unconventional, unorthodox antonyms: traditional"
palliate	"/ˈpalēˌāt/ v. make (a disease or its symptoms) less severe or unpleasant without removing the cause. synonyms: alleviate, ease, relieve, soothe, take the edge off, assuage, moderate, temper, diminish, decrease, blunt, deaden ""the treatment works by palliating symptoms""   v. allay or moderate (fears or suspicions). ""this eliminated, or at least palliated, suspicions aroused by German unity"""
panacea	"/ˌpanəˈsēə/ n. a solution or remedy for all difficulties or diseases. ""the panacea for all corporate ills"" synonyms: universal cure, cure-all, cure for all ills, universal remedy, elixir, wonder drug ""a panacea for the country's economic problems"""
paradigm	"/ˈperəˌdīm/ n. a typical example or pattern of something; a model. ""there is a new paradigm for public art in this country"" synonyms: model, pattern, example, exemplar, template, standard, prototype, archetype ""why should your sets of values be the paradigm for the rest of us?"""
partisan	"/ˈpärdəzən/ n. a strong supporter of a party, cause, or person. synonyms: supporter, follower, adherent, devotee, champion   adj. prejudiced in favor of a particular cause. ""newspapers have become increasingly partisan"" synonyms: biased, prejudiced, one-sided, discriminatory, colored, partial, interested, sectarian, factional ""partisan attitudes"" antonyms: unbiased"
patina	/pəˈtēnə/ n. a green or brown film on the surface of bronze or similar metals, produced by oxidation over a long period.
paucity	"/ˈpôsədē/ n. the presence of something only in small or insufficient quantities or amounts; scarcity. ""a paucity of information"" synonyms: scarcity, sparseness, sparsity, dearth, shortage, poverty, insufficiency, deficiency, lack, want ""the police cannot act with such a paucity of evidence"" antonyms: abundance"
pedestrian	"/pəˈdestrēən/ adj. lacking inspiration or excitement; dull. ""disenchantment with their present, pedestrian lives"" synonyms: dull, boring, tedious, monotonous, uneventful, unremarkable, tiresome, wearisome, uninspired, unimaginative, unexciting, uninteresting, uninvolving antonyms: exciting"
piquant	/ˈpēkənt,/ adj. having a pleasantly sharp taste or appetizing flavor. synonyms: spicy, tangy, peppery, hot antonyms: bland   adj. pleasantly stimulating or exciting to the mind. synonyms: intriguing, stimulating, interesting, fascinating, colorful, exciting, lively antonyms: dull
placid	"/ˈplasəd/ adj. (of a person or animal) not easily upset or excited. ""this horse has a placid nature"" synonyms: even-tempered, calm, tranquil, equable, unexcitable, serene, mild, 'calm, cool, and collected', composed, self-possessed, poised, easygoing, levelheaded, steady, unruffled, unperturbed, phlegmatic ""she's normally very placid"" antonyms: excitable   adj. (especially of a place or stretch of water) calm and peaceful, with little movement or activity. ""the placid waters of a small lake"" synonyms: quiet, calm, tranquil, still, peaceful, undisturbed, restful, sleepy ""a placid village"" antonyms: bustling"
portent	"/ˈpôrˌtent/ n. a sign or warning that something, especially something momentous or calamitous, is likely to happen. ""they believed that wild birds in the house were portents of death"" synonyms: omen, sign, signal, token, forewarning, warning, danger sign, foreshadowing, prediction, forecast, prophecy, harbinger, augury, auspice, presage"
plaintive	"/ˈplān(t)iv/ adj. sounding sad and mournful. synonyms: mournful, sad, wistful, doleful, pathetic, pitiful, piteous, melancholy, sorrowful, unhappy, wretched, woeful, forlorn, woebegone ""a plaintive cry"""
privation	"/prīˈvāSH(ə)n/ n. a state in which things that are essential for human well-being such as food and warmth are scarce or lacking. synonyms: deprivation, hardship, destitution, impoverishment, want, need, neediness, austerity ""years of rationing and privation"" antonyms: plenty, luxury"
provincial	"/prəˈvin(t)SH(ə)l/ adj. of or concerning a province of a country or empire. ""provincial elections"" synonyms: nonmetropolitan, small-town, nonurban, outlying, rural, country, rustic, backwoods, backwater antonyms: national, metropolitan, cosmopolitan   adj. of or concerning the regions outside the capital city of a country, especially when regarded as unsophisticated or narrow-minded. ""scenes of violence were reported in provincial towns"" synonyms: regional, state, territorial, district antonyms: national, sophisticated, broad-minded"
putative	"/ˈpyo͞odədiv/ adj. generally considered or reputed to be. ""the putative author of the book"" synonyms: supposed, assumed, presumed"
quay	/kē/ n. a concrete, stone, or metal platform lying alongside or projecting into water for loading and unloading ships. synonyms: wharf, pier, jetty, landing stage, berth
queue	"/kyo͞o/ n. a line or sequence of people or vehicles awaiting their turn to be attended to or to proceed. synonyms: lineup, line, row, column, file, chain, string   v. take one's place in a queue. ""in the war they had queued for food"" synonyms: line up, wait in line, form a line, fall in, form a queue, queue up ""we queued for ice cream"""
quintessential	"/ˌkwin(t)əˈsen(t)SHəl/ adj. representing the most perfect or typical example of a quality or class. ""he was the quintessential tough guy—strong, silent, and self-contained"" synonyms: typical, prototypical, stereotypical, archetypal, classic, model, standard, stock, representative, conventional"
rampart	"/ˈramˌpärt/ n. a defensive wall of a castle or walled city, having a broad top with a walkway and typically a stone parapet. synonyms: defensive wall, embankment, earthwork, parapet, breastwork, battlement, bulwark, outwork ""the castle's stony ramparts"""
redolent	"/ˈredlənt/ adj. strongly reminiscent or suggestive of (something). ""names redolent of history and tradition"" synonyms: evocative, suggestive, reminiscent ""their pubs bear names redolent of the monarchy""   adj. fragrant or sweet-smelling. ""a rich, inky, redolent wine"""
remonstrate	"/rəˈmänˌstrāt/ v. make a forcefully reproachful protest. ""he turned angrily to remonstrate with Tommy"" synonyms: protest, complain, expostulate"
remuneration	/rəˌmyo͞onəˈrāSH(ə)n/ n. money paid for work or a service. synonyms: payment, pay, salary, wages
replete	"/rəˈplēt/ adj. filled or well-supplied with something. ""sensational popular fiction, replete with adultery and sudden death"" synonyms: filled, full, well stocked, well supplied, crammed, packed, jammed, teeming, overflowing, bursting   adj. very full of or sated by food. ""I went out into the sun-drenched streets again, replete and relaxed"" synonyms: well fed, sated, satiated, full, full up"
reproach	"/rəˈprōCH/ v. address (someone) in such a way as to express disapproval or disappointment. ""critics of the administration reproached the president for his failure to tackle the deficiency""   v. accuse someone of. ""his wife reproached him with cowardice"""
reprobate	/ˈreprəˌbāt/ n. an unprincipled person (often used humorously or affectionately). synonyms: rogue, rascal, scoundrel, miscreant, good-for-nothing, villain, wretch, rake, degenerate, libertine, debauchee
reprove	"/rəˈpro͞ov/ v. reprimand or censure (someone). ""he was reproved for obscenity"" synonyms: reprimand, rebuke, reproach, scold, admonish, chastise, chide, upbraid, berate, take to task, rake/haul over the coals, criticize, censure"
respite	"/rēˈspīt/ n. a short period of rest or relief from something difficult or unpleasant. ""the refugee encampments will provide some respite from the suffering"" synonyms: rest, break, breathing space, interval, intermission, interlude, recess, lull, pause, time out"
ribald	"/ˈribəld/ adj. referring to sexual matters in an amusingly rude or irreverent way. ""a ribald comment"""
sagacious	"/səˈɡāSHəs/ adj. having or showing keen mental discernment and good judgment; shrewd. ""they were sagacious enough to avoid any outright confrontation"" synonyms: wise, clever, intelligent, knowledgeable, sensible, sage antonyms: foolish"
salutary	"/ˈsalyəˌterē/ adj. (especially with reference to something unwelcome or unpleasant) producing good effects; beneficial. ""a salutary reminder of where we came from"" synonyms: beneficial, advantageous, good, profitable, productive, helpful, useful, valuable, worthwhile; timely ""a salutary lesson on the fragility of nature"""
sycophant	"/ˈsikəˌfant/ n. a person who acts obsequiously toward someone important in order to gain advantage. synonyms: yes-man, bootlicker, brown-noser, toady, lickspittle, flatterer, flunky, lackey, spaniel, doormat, stooge, cringer, suck, suck-up ""I thought you wanted a competent assistant, not a nodding sycophant"""
taciturn	/ˈtasəˌtərn/ adj. (of a person) reserved or uncommunicative in speech; saying little. synonyms: untalkative, uncommunicative, reticent, unforthcoming, quiet, secretive, tight-lipped, buttoned-up, close-mouthed antonyms: talkative
turpitude	"/ˈtərpəˌt(y)o͞od/ n. depravity; wickedness. ""acts of moral turpitude"""
usury	/ˈyo͞oZH(ə)rē/ n. the illegal action or practice of lending money at unreasonably high rates of interest.
venal	"/ˈvēnl/ adj. showing or motivated by susceptibility to bribery. ""why should these venal politicians care how they are rated?"" synonyms: corrupt, corruptible, bribable, open to bribery antonyms: honorable, honest"
verdant	/ˈvərdnt/ adj. (of countryside) green with grass or other rich vegetation. synonyms: green, leafy, grassy
vestige	"/ˈvestij/ n. a trace of something that is disappearing or no longer exists. ""the last vestiges of colonialism"" synonyms: remnant, fragment, relic, echo, indication, sign, trace, residue, mark, legacy, reminder; remains"
vitiate	"/ˈviSHēˌāt/ v. spoil or impair the quality or efficiency of. ""development programs have been vitiated by the rise in population"""
wizened	"/ˈwizənd/ adj. shriveled or wrinkled with age. ""a wizened, weather-beaten old man"" synonyms: wrinkled, lined, creased, shriveled (up), withered, weather-beaten, shrunken, gnarled, aged ""their wizened faces said much about the hard lives they had endured"""
shriveled	"/ˈSHriv(ə)ld/ adj. wrinkled and contracted, especially due to loss of moisture or old age. ""her long, shriveled hand"""
wither	"/ˈwiT͟Hər/ v. (of a plant) become dry and shriveled. ""the grass had withered to an unappealing brown"" synonyms: shrivel (up), dry up antonyms: thrive, flourish   v. cause harm or damage to. ""a business that can wither the hardiest ego"""
recompense	"/ˈrekəmˌpens/ v. make amends to (someone) for loss or harm suffered; compensate. ""offenders should recompense their victims"" synonyms: compensate, indemnify, repay, reimburse, make reparation to, make restitution to, make amends to   v. pay or reward (someone) for effort or work. ""he was handsomely recompensed"" synonyms: reward, pay back ""she wanted to recompense him"""
wretched	"/ˈreCHəd/ adj. (of a person) in a very unhappy or unfortunate state. ""I felt so wretched because I thought I might never see you again"" synonyms: miserable, unhappy, sad, heartbroken, grief-stricken, sorrowful, sorry for oneself, distressed, desolate, devastated, despairing, disconsolate, downcast, dejected, crestfallen, cheerless, depressed, melancholy, morose, gloomy, mournful, doleful, dismal, forlorn, woebegone"
oblivious	"/əˈblivēəs/ adj. not aware of or not concerned about what is happening around one. ""she became absorbed, oblivious to the passage of time"" synonyms: unaware of, unconscious of, heedless of, unmindful of, insensible of/to, unheeding of, ignorant of, incognizant of, blind to, deaf to, unsuspecting of, unobservant of  antonyms: aware, conscious, sensitive"
writ	"/rit/ n. a form of written command in the name of a court or other legal authority to act, or abstain from acting, in some way. synonyms: summons, subpoena, warrant, arraignment, indictment, citation, court order ""they were served with a writ"""
petulant	"/ˈpeCHələnt/ adj. (of a person or their manner) childishly sulky or bad-tempered. ""he was moody and petulant"" synonyms: peevish, bad-tempered, querulous, pettish, fretful, cross, irritable, sulky, snappish, crotchety, touchy, tetchy, testy, fractious, grumpy, disgruntled, crabby"
purport	"/pərˈpôrt/ v. appear or claim to be or do something, especially falsely; profess. ""she is not the person she purports to be"" synonyms: claim to be, profess to be, pretend to be   /ˈpərˌpôrt/ n. the meaning or substance of something, typically a document or speech. ""I do not understand the purport of your remarks"" synonyms: gist, substance, drift, implication, intention, meaning, significance, sense, essence, thrust, message ""the purport of his remarks"""
plight	"/plīt/ n. a dangerous, difficult, or otherwise unfortunate situation. ""we must direct our efforts toward relieving the plight of children living in poverty"" synonyms: predicament, quandary, difficult situation, dire straits, trouble, difficulty, extremity, bind"
cadre	"/ˈkadrē/n. a small group of people specially trained for a particular purpose or profession. ""a small cadre of scientists"" synonyms: corps, body, team, group, nucleus, core ""a cadre of academic specialists"""
chip	"/CHip/ v. cut or break (a small piece) from the edge or surface of a hard material. ""we had to chip ice off the upper deck"" synonyms: nick, crack, scratch; damage ""a stone chipped my windshield"""
purge	"/pərj/ v. rid (someone) of an unwanted feeling, memory, or condition, typically giving a sense of cathartic release. ""Bob had helped purge Martha of the terrible guilt that had haunted her"" synonyms: cleanse, clear, purify, wash, shrive, absolve ""he purged them of their doubt"""
clamp	"/klamp/ n. a brace, band, or clasp used for strengthening or holding things together. synonyms: brace, vice, press, clasp   v. fasten (something) in place with a clamp. ""the sander is clamped onto the edge of a workbench"" synonyms: fasten, secure, fix, attach"
coup	"/ko͞o/ n. a sudden, violent, and illegal seizure of power from a government. ""he was overthrown in an army coup"" synonyms: seizure of power, coup d'état, putsch, overthrow, takeover, deposition   n. a notable or successful stroke or move. ""it was a major coup to get such a prestigious contract"" synonyms: success, triumph, feat, accomplishment, achievement, scoop, master stroke, stroke of genius ""a major publishing coup"""
quash	"/kwäSH/ v. reject or void, especially by legal procedure. ""his conviction was quashed on appeal"" synonyms: cancel, reverse, rescind, repeal, revoke, retract, countermand, withdraw, overturn, overrule, veto, annul, nullify, invalidate, negate, void   v. put an end to; suppress. ""a hospital executive quashed rumors that nursing staff will lose jobs"" synonyms: put an end to, put a stop to, stamp out, crush, put down, check, curb, nip in the bud, squash, quell, subdue, suppress, extinguish, stifle"
abjure	"/əbˈjo͝or/ v. solemnly renounce (a belief, cause, or claim). ""his refusal to abjure the Catholic faith"" synonyms: renounce, relinquish, reject, forgo, disavow, abandon, deny, repudiate, give up, wash one's hands of"
adumbrate	"/əˈdəmˌbrāt/ v. report or represent in outline. ""James Madison adumbrated the necessity that the Senate be somewhat insulated from public passions""   v. indicate faintly. ""the walls were not more than adumbrated by the meager light"""
anodyne	"/ˈanəˌdīn/ adj. not likely to provoke dissent or offense; inoffensive, often deliberately so. ""anodyne New Age music""   n. a painkilling drug or medicine."
apogee	"/ˈapəjē/ n. the highest point in the development of something; the climax or culmination. ""the White House is considered the apogee of American achievement"""
apotheosis	"/əˌpäTHēˈōsəs/ n. the highest point in the development of something; culmination or climax. ""his appearance as Hamlet was the apotheosis of his career""   n. the elevation of someone to divine status; deification."
artful	"/ˈärtfəl/ adj. (of a person or action) clever or skillful, typically in a crafty or cunning way. ""her artful wiles"" synonyms: sly, crafty, cunning, wily, scheming, devious, Machiavellian, sneaky, tricky, conniving, designing, calculating antonyms: ingenuous   adj. showing creative skill or taste. ""an artful photograph of a striking woman"" synonyms: skillful, clever, adept, adroit, skilled, expert ""artful precision"""
artless	"/ˈärtləs/ adj. without guile or deception. ""an artless, naive girl""   adj. without effort or pretentiousness; natural and simple. ""an artless literary masterpiece"" synonyms: natural, ingenuous, naive, simple, innocent, childlike, guileless antonyms: scheming"
assay	"/ˈaˌsā/ n. the testing of a metal or ore to determine its ingredients and quality. ""submission of plate for assay"" synonyms: evaluation, assessment, appraisal, analysis, examination, test/tests, testing, inspection, scrutiny ""this brand of herbal supplement will undergo independent assay""   v. examine (something) in order to assess its nature. ""stepping inside, I quickly assayed the clientele"" synonyms: evaluate, assess, appraise, analyze, examine, test, inspect, scrutinize, probe ""gold is assayed to determine its purity"""
asseveration	"/əˌsevəˈrāSHən/ n. the solemn or emphatic declaration or statement of something. ""I fear that you offer only unsupported asseveration"""
augur	"/ˈôɡər/v. (of an event or circumstance) portend a good or bad outcome. ""the end of the Cold War seemed to augur well"" synonyms: bode, portend, herald, be a sign of, warn of, forewarn of, foreshadow, be an omen of, presage, indicate, signify, signal, promise, threaten, spell, denote   v. portend or bode (a specified outcome). ""a new coalition would not augur a new period of social reforms"""
baleful	"/ˈbālfəl/ adj. threatening harm; menacing. ""Bill shot a baleful glance in her direction"" synonyms: menacing, threatening, unfriendly, hostile, antagonistic, evil, evil-intentioned, vindictive, wicked, nasty, bitter, acrimonious, malevolent, malicious, malignant, malign, sinister antonyms: benevolent, friendly"
beatify	"/bēˈadəˌfī/ v. (in the Roman Catholic Church) announce the beatification of. synonyms: canonize, bless, sanctify, hallow, consecrate, make holy ""he was beatified by Pope Leo XIII"""
bilious	"/ˈbilyəs/ adj. affected by or associated with nausea or vomiting. ""I had eaten something that didn't agree with me and I was a little bilious"" synonyms: nauseous, sick, queasy, nauseated, green around the gills ""I felt bilious"" antonyms: well"
calumny	/ˈkaləmnē/ n. the making of false and defamatory statements in order to damage someone's reputation; slander. synonyms: slander, defamation (of character), character assassination, libel
captious	/ˈkapSHəs/ adj. (of a person) tending to find fault or raise petty objections.
carapace	/ˈkerəˌpās/ n. the hard upper shell of a turtle, crustacean, or arachnid.
celerity	/səˈlerədē/ n. swiftness of movement.
coeval	"/ˌkōˈēv(ə)l/ adj. having the same age or date of origin; contemporary. ""these lavas were coeval with the volcanic activity"""
contretemps	"/ˈkäntrətäN/ n. a minor dispute or disagreement. ""she had occasional contretemps with her staff"" synonyms: argument, quarrel, squabble, disagreement, difference of opinion, dispute   n. an unexpected and unfortunate occurrence. ""the hotel had to deal with more than one contretemps before the end of the night"""
contumacious	/ˌkänt(y)o͝oˈmāSHəs/ adj. (especially of a defendant's behavior) stubbornly or willfully disobedient to authority.
corrigible	/ˈkôrəjəbəl/ adj. capable of being corrected, rectified, or reformed.
denouement	"/ˌdāno͞oˈmäN/ n. the final part of a play, movie, or narrative in which the strands of the plot are drawn together and matters are explained or resolved. synonyms: finale, final scene, epilogue, coda, end, ending, finish, close antonyms: beginning   n. the climax of a chain of events, usually when something is decided or made clear. ""I waited by the eighteenth green to see the denouement"" synonyms: outcome, upshot, consequence, result, end ""the debate had an unexpected denouement"" antonyms: origin"
descry	"/dəˈskrī/ v. catch sight of. ""she descried two figures"""
desuetude	"/ˈdeswəˌt(y)o͞od/ n. a state of disuse. ""the docks fell into desuetude"""
desultory	"/ˈdesəlˌtôrē/ adj. lacking a plan, purpose, or enthusiasm. ""a few people were left, dancing in a desultory fashion"" synonyms: casual, cursory, superficial, token, perfunctory, half-hearted, lukewarm antonyms: keen   adj. (of conversation or speech) going constantly from one subject to another in a halfhearted way; unfocused. ""the desultory conversation faded"""
diaphanous	"/dīˈafənəs/ adj. (especially of fabric) light, delicate, and translucent. ""a diaphanous dress of pale gold"" synonyms: sheer, fine, delicate, light, thin, insubstantial, floaty, flimsy, filmy, silken, chiffony, gossamer, gossamer-thin, gauzy antonyms: thick, opaque"
diffident	"/ˈdifəd(ə)nt/ adj. modest or shy because of a lack of self-confidence. ""a diffident youth"" synonyms: shy, bashful, modest, self-effacing, unassuming, meek, unconfident, unassertive, timid, timorous, humble, shrinking, reticent, hesitant, insecure, self-doubting, doubtful, uncertain, unsure, self-conscious ""underneath his diffident exterior was a passionate temperament"" antonyms: confident"
diurnal	"/dīˈərnl/ adj. of or during the day. synonyms: daily, everyday, quotidian, occurring every/each day ""the patient's moods are determined by diurnal events""   adj. daily; of each day. ""diurnal rhythms"""
dulcet	"/ˈdəlsət/ adj. (especially of sound) sweet and soothing (often used ironically). ""record the dulcet tones of your family and friends"" synonyms: sweet, soothing, mellow, honeyed, mellifluous, euphonious, pleasant, agreeable antonyms: harsh"
egress	"/ˈēˌɡres/ n. the action of going out of or leaving a place. ""direct means of access and egress for passengers"" synonyms: departure, exit, withdrawal, retreat, exodus; escape ""a means of egress"" antonyms: entry   v. go out of or leave (a place). ""they'd egress the area by heading southwest"""
encomium	/inˈkōmēəm/ n. a speech or piece of writing that praises someone or something highly. synonyms: eulogy, panegyric, paean, accolade, tribute, testimonial
essay	"/eˈsā/ v. attempt or try. ""essay a smile"""
estimable	/ˈestəməbəl/adj. worthy of great respect.
excoriate	"/āt,ekˈskôrēˌāt/ v. censure or criticize severely. ""the papers that had been excoriating him were now lauding him"""
execrate	"/ˈeksəˌkrāt/ v. feel or express great loathing for. ""they were execrated as dangerous and corrupt"""
exegesis	"/ˌeksəˈjēsis/ n. critical explanation or interpretation of a text, especially of scripture. ""the task of biblical exegesis"" synonyms: interpretation, explanation, exposition, explication"
expiate	"/ˈekspēˌāt/ v. atone for (guilt or sin). ""their sins must be expiated by sacrifice"" synonyms: atone for, make amends for, make up for, do penance for, pay for, redress, redeem, offset, make good ""the desire to expiate his sins"""
atone	"/əˈtōn/ v. make amends or reparation. ""he was being helpful, to atone for his past mistakes"" synonyms: make amends for, make reparation for, make restitution for, make up for, compensate for, pay for, recompense for, expiate, redress, make good, offset; do penance for ""how shall I atone for my mistakes?"""
fecund	"/ˈfekənd/ adj. producing or capable of producing an abundance of offspring or new growth; fertile. ""a lush and fecund garden"" synonyms: fertile, fruitful, productive, high-yielding antonyms: barren"
fell	"/fel/ v. cut down (a tree). synonyms: cut down, chop down, hack down, saw down, clear ""all the dead sycamores had to be felled""   adj. of terrible evil or ferocity; deadly. ""sorcerers use spells to achieve their fell ends"" synonyms: murderous, savage, violent, vicious, fierce, ferocious, barbarous, barbaric, monstrous, cruel, ruthless ""a fell intent"""
fractious	"/ˈfrakSHəs/ adj. (typically of children) irritable and quarrelsome. ""they fight and squabble like fractious children"" synonyms: grumpy, bad-tempered, irascible, irritable, crotchety, grouchy, cantankerous, short-tempered, tetchy, testy, curmudgeonly, ill-tempered, ill-humored, peevish, cross, waspish, crabby, crusty, prickly, touchy antonyms: contented, affable   adj. (of a group or organization) difficult to control; unruly. ""the fractious coalition of Social Democrats"" synonyms: wayward, unruly, uncontrollable, unmanageable, out of hand, obstreperous, difficult, headstrong, recalcitrant, intractable antonyms: dutiful"
hirsute	"/hərˌso͞ot/ adj. hairy. ""their hirsute chests"" synonyms: hairy, shaggy, bushy, hair-covered"
hoary	"/ˈhôrē/ adj. grayish white. ""hoary cobwebs"" synonyms: grayish-white, gray, white, snowy, silver, silvery   adj. (of a person) having gray or white hair; aged. ""a hoary old fellow with a face of white stubble"" synonyms: gray-haired, white-haired, silver-haired, grizzled antonyms: young"
husband	"/ˈhəzbənd/ v. use (resources) economically; conserve. ""the need to husband his remaining strength"""
imbroglio	"/imˈbrōlyō/ n. an extremely confused, complicated, or embarrassing situation. ""the Watergate imbroglio"" synonyms: complicated situation, complication, problem, difficulty, predicament, trouble, confusion, quandary, entanglement, muddle, mess, quagmire, morass, sticky situation"
importune	"/ˌimpôrˈt(y)o͞on/ v. ask (someone) pressingly and persistently for or to do something. ""if he were alive now, I should importune him with my questions"" synonyms: beg, beseech, entreat, implore, plead with, appeal to, call on, lobby"
indefatigable	"/ˌindəˈfadəɡəb(ə)l/adj. (of a person or their efforts) persisting tirelessly. ""an indefatigable defender of human rights"" synonyms: tireless, untiring, unflagging, unwearied"
insouciant	"/inˈso͞osēənt/adj. showing a casual lack of concern; indifferent. ""an insouciant shrug"" synonyms: nonchalant, untroubled, unworried, unruffled, unconcerned, indifferent, blasé, heedless, careless"
invidious	"/inˈvidēəs/ adj. (of an action or situation) likely to arouse or incur resentment or anger in others. ""she'd put herself in an invidious position"" synonyms: unpleasant, awkward, difficult antonyms: pleasant   adj. (of a comparison or distinction) unfairly discriminating; unjust. ""it seems invidious to make special mention of one aspect of his work"" synonyms: unfair, unjust, iniquitous, unwarranted antonyms: fair"
jejune	"/jəˈjo͞on/ adj. naive, simplistic, and superficial.  ""their entirely predictable and usually jejune opinions""   adj. (of ideas or writings) dry and uninteresting. ""the poem seems to me rather jejune"""
lachrymose	"/ˈlakrəˌmōs/ adj. tearful or given to weeping. ""she was pink-eyed and lachrymose""   adj. inducing tears; sad. ""a lachrymose children's classic"""
ligneous	/ˈliɡnēəs/ adj. made, consisting of, or resembling wood; woody.
limn	"/lim/ v. depict or describe in painting or words. synonyms: describe, portray, depict, illustrate ""his earlier works limned violence""   v. suffuse or highlight (something) with a bright color or light. ""a crescent moon limned each shred with white gold"" synonyms: highlight, adorn, embellish, paint, illuminate, suffuse ""he created striated forms limned with bold black contour lines"""
list	"/list/ v. (of a ship) lean to one side, typically because of a leak or unbalanced cargo. synonyms: lean, lean over, tilt, tip, heel, heel over, keel over, careen, cant, pitch, incline, slant, slope, bank ""the boat listed to one side"""
lubricious	/lo͞oˈbriSHəs/ adj. offensively displaying or intended to arouse sexual desire.   adj. smooth and slippery with oil or a similar substance.
meet	"/mēt/ adj. suitable; fit; proper. ""it is a theater meet for great events"""
mellifluous	"/məˈliflo͞oəs/ adj. (of a voice or words) sweet or musical; pleasant to hear. ""the voice was mellifluous and smooth"" synonyms: sweet-sounding, dulcet, honeyed, mellow, soft, liquid, silvery, soothing, rich, smooth, euphonious, harmonious, tuneful, musical ""mellifluous dinner music"" antonyms: cacophonous"
meretricious	"/ˌmerəˈtriSHəs/ adj. apparently attractive but having in reality no value or integrity. ""meretricious souvenirs for the tourist trade"" synonyms: worthless, valueless, cheap, tawdry, trashy, Brummagem, tasteless, kitsch, kitschy"
minatory	"/ˈminəˌtôrē/ adj. expressing or conveying a threat. ""he is unlikely to be deterred by minatory finger-wagging"""
nadir	"/ˈnādər/ n. the lowest point in the fortunes of a person or organization. ""they had reached the nadir of their sufferings"" synonyms: lowest point, lowest level, all-time low, bottom, rock-bottom ""the nadir of his career"" antonyms: zenith"
nonplus	"/nänˈpləs/ v. surprise and confuse (someone) so much that they are unsure how to react. ""Diane was nonplussed by such an odd question"""
nugatory	"/ n(y)o͞oɡəˌtôrē/ adj. of no value or importance. ""a nugatory and pointless observation"" synonyms: worthless, unimportant, inconsequential, valueless, trifling, trivial, insignificant, meaningless   adj. useless; futile. ""the teacher shortages will render nugatory the hopes of implementing the new curriculum"" synonyms: futile, useless, vain, unavailing, null, invalid ""the shortages will render our hopes nugatory"""
obstreperous	"/əbˈstrepərəs/ adj. noisy and difficult to control. ""the boy is cocky and obstreperous"" synonyms: unruly, unmanageable, disorderly, undisciplined, uncontrollable, rowdy, disruptive, truculent, difficult, refractory, rebellious, mutinous, riotous, out of control, wild, turbulent, uproarious, boisterous antonyms: quiet, restrained"
ossify	"/ˈäsəˌfī/ v. turn into bone or bony tissue. ""these tracheal cartilages may ossify"" synonyms: turn into bone, become bony, calcify, harden, solidify, rigidify, petrify   v. cease developing; be stagnant or rigid. ""ossified political institutions"" synonyms: become inflexible, become rigid, fossilize, calcify, rigidify, stagnate ""the old political institutions have ossified"""
otiose	"/ˈōdēˌōs/ adj. serving no practical purpose or result. ""he did fuss, uttering otiose explanations"""
panegyric	"/ˌpanəˈjirik/ n. a public speech or published text in praise of someone or something. ""Vera's panegyric on friendship"" synonyms: eulogy, speech of praise, paean, accolade, tribute ""the panegyric she delivered in Syd's memory brought tears to our eyes"""
parry	"/ˈperē/ v. ward off (a weapon or attack), especially with a countermove. ""he parried the blow by holding his sword vertically"" synonyms: ward off, fend off   v. answer (a question or accusation) evasively. ""he parried questions from reporters outside the building"" synonyms: evade, sidestep, avoid, dodge, answer evasively, field, fend off ""I parried her constant questions"""
pellucid	"/pəˈlo͞osəd/ adj. translucently clear. ""mountains reflected in the pellucid waters"" synonyms: translucent, transparent, clear, crystal clear, crystalline, glassy, limpid, unclouded, gin-clear ""the pellucid waters""   adj. lucid in style or meaning; easily understood. ""he writes, as always, in pellucid prose"" synonyms: lucid, limpid, clear, crystal clear, articulate"
limpid	"/ˈlimpid/ adj. (of a liquid) free of anything that darkens; completely clear. synonyms: clear, transparent, glassy, crystal clear, crystalline, translucent, pellucid, unclouded ""a limpid pool"" antonyms: opaque"
peripatetic	"/ˌperēpəˈtedik/ adj. traveling from place to place, especially working or based in various places for relatively short periods. ""the peripatetic nature of military life"" synonyms: nomadic, itinerant, traveling, wandering, roving, roaming, migrant, migratory, unsettled ""I could never get used to her peripatetic lifestyle"""
perorate	"/ˈperəˌrāt/ v. speak at length. ""he reportedly would perorate against his colleague"""
plangent	/ˈplanjənt/ adj. (of a sound) loud, reverberating, and often melancholy. synonyms: melancholy, mournful, plaintive
pry	"/prī/ v. inquire too closely into a person's private affairs. ""I'm sick of you prying into my personal life"" synonyms: inquire impertinently, be inquisitive, be curious, poke around/about, ferret (about/around), spy, be a busybody antonyms: mind one's own business   v. use force in order to move or open (something) or to separate (something) from something else. ""using a screwdriver, he pried open the window"" synonyms: lever, jimmy, prize   v. obtain something from (someone) with effort or difficulty. ""I got the loan, though I had to pry it out of him"" synonyms: wring, wrest, worm out, screw, squeeze, extract, prize; winkle out ""he had to pry information from them"""
prolix	"/ˈprōliks/ adj. (of speech or writing) using or containing too many words; tediously lengthy. ""he found the narrative too prolix and discursive"" synonyms: long-winded, verbose, wordy, pleonastic, discursive, rambling, long-drawn-out, overlong, lengthy, protracted, interminable"
propinquity	"/prəˈpiNGkwədē/ n. the state of being close to someone or something; proximity. ""he kept his distance as though afraid propinquity might lead him into temptation"""
propitiate	"/prəˈpiSHēˌāt/ v. win or regain the favor of (a god, spirit, or person) by doing something that pleases them. ""the pagans thought it was important to propitiate the gods with sacrifices"" synonyms: appease, placate, mollify, pacify, make peace with, conciliate, make amends to, soothe, calm ""my attempts to propitiate you are useless"" antonyms: provoke"
propitious	"/prəˈpiSHəs/ adj. giving or indicating a good chance of success; favorable. ""the timing for such a meeting seemed propitious"" synonyms: favorable, auspicious, promising, providential, advantageous, optimistic, bright, rosy, heaven-sent, hopeful antonyms: inauspicious, unfortunate"
puerile	"/ˈpyo͝orəl/ adj. childishly silly and trivial. ""you're making puerile excuses"" synonyms: childish, immature, infantile, juvenile, babyish antonyms: mature, sensible"
puissant	/ˈpyo͞oəsnt/ adj. having great power or influence.
pulchritude	/ˈpəlkrəˌt(y)o͞od/ n. beauty.
pusillanimous	/ˌpyo͞osəˈlanəməs/ adj. showing a lack of courage or determination; timid. synonyms: timid, timorous, cowardly, fearful, faint-hearted, lily-livered, spineless, craven, shrinking antonyms: brave
salacious	"/səˈlāSHəs/ adj. (of writing, pictures, or talk) treating sexual matters in an indecent way and typically conveying undue interest in or enjoyment of the subject. ""salacious stories"" synonyms: pornographic, obscene, indecent, crude, lewd, vulgar, dirty, filthy   adj. lustful; lecherous. ""his salacious grin faltered"" synonyms: lustful, lecherous, licentious, lascivious, libidinous, prurient, lewd"
saturnine	"/ˈsadərˌnīn/ adj. (of a person or their manner) slow and gloomy. ""a saturnine temperament"" synonyms: gloomy, somber, melancholy, moody, lugubrious, dour, glum, morose, unsmiling, humorless antonyms: cheerful"
sententious	"/senˈten(t)SHəs/ adj. given to moralizing in a pompous or affected manner. ""he tried to encourage his men with sententious rhetoric"" synonyms: moralistic, moralizing, sanctimonious, self-righteous, pietistic, pious, priggish, judgmental"
sidereal	/ˌsīˈdirēəl/ adj. of or with respect to the distant stars (i.e., the constellations or fixed stars, not the sun or planets).
sinecure	/ˈsīnəkyo͝or/ n. a position requiring little or no work but giving the holder status or financial benefit. synonyms: easy job, cushy job, soft option
stentorian	"/stenˈtôrēən/ adj. (of a person's voice) loud and powerful. ""he introduced me to the staff with a stentorian announcement"" synonyms: loud, thundering, thunderous, ear-splitting, deafening antonyms: quiet, soft"
stygian	"/ˈstijēən/ adj. very dark. ""the Stygian crypt"""
succor	"/ˈsəkər/ n. assistance and support in times of hardship and distress. synonyms: aid, help, a helping hand, assistance   v. give assistance or aid to. ""prisoners of war were liberated and succored"" synonyms: help, aid, bring aid to, give/render assistance to, assist, lend a (helping) hand to"
sundry	"/ˈsəndrē/ adj. of various kinds; several. ""lemon rind and sundry herbs"" synonyms: various, varied, miscellaneous, assorted, mixed, diverse, diversified"
supine	"/ˈso͞oˌpīn/ adj. (of a person) lying face upward. synonyms: flat on one's back, face upward, facing upward, flat, horizontal, recumbent, stretched out ""she lay supine on the sand"" antonyms: prone, upright   adj. failing to act or protest as a result of moral weakness or indolence. ""supine in the face of racial injustice"" synonyms: weak, spineless, yielding, effete antonyms: strong"
tendentious	"/tenˈdenSHəs/ adj. expressing or intending to promote a particular cause or point of view, especially a controversial one. ""a tendentious reading of history"""
turbid	"/ˈtərbəd/ adj. (of a liquid) cloudy, opaque, or thick with suspended matter. ""the turbid estuary"" synonyms: murky, opaque, cloudy, unclear, muddy, thick, milky, roily ""turbid waters"" antonyms: clear"
tyro	/ˈtīrō/ n. a beginner or novice. synonyms: novice, beginner, learner, neophyte, newcomer, initiate, fledgling antonyms: veteran
unctuous	"/ˈəNG(k)(t)SH(o͞o)əs/ adj. (of a person) excessively or ingratiatingly flattering; oily. ""he seemed anxious to please but not in an unctuous way"" synonyms: sycophantic, ingratiating, obsequious, fawning, servile, groveling, subservient, cringing, humble, hypocritical, insincere, gushing, effusive"
voluble	"/ˈvälyəbəl/ adj. speaking or spoken incessantly and fluently. ""she was as voluble as her husband was silent"" synonyms: talkative, loquacious, garrulous, verbose, wordy, chatty, gossipy, effusive, gushing, forthcoming, conversational, communicative, expansive antonyms: taciturn"
wag	"/waɡ/  n. a single rapid movement from side to side. ""a chirpy wag of the head""   v. (with reference to an animal's tail) move or cause to move rapidly to and fro. ""his tail began to wag"" synonyms: swing, swish, switch, sway, shake, quiver, twitch, whip, bob ""the dog's tail wagged frantically"""
ripe	/rīp/ v. (of fruit or grain) developed to the point of readiness for harvesting and eating. synonyms: mature, ripened, full grown, ready to eat antonyms: green
emblazon	"/əmˈblāzn/ v. conspicuously inscribe or display (a design) on something. ""T-shirts emblazoned with the names of baseball teams"" synonyms: adorn, decorate, ornament, embellish; inscribe ""an official t-shirt with the logo emblazoned on it"""
helm	"/helm/ n. a tiller or wheel and any associated equipment for steering a ship or boat. ""she stayed at the helm, alert for tankers"" synonyms: tiller, wheel"
weary	"/ˈwirē/ adj. feeling or showing tiredness, especially as a result of excessive exertion or lack of sleep. ""he gave a long, weary sigh"" synonyms: tired, worn out, exhausted, fatigued, sapped, burnt-out, dog-tired, spent, drained, prostrate, enervated"
falter	"/ˈfôltər/ v. start to lose strength or momentum. ""her smile faltered and then faded"" synonyms: hesitate, delay, drag one's feet, stall   v. speak in a hesitant or unsteady voice. ""“I c-c-can't,” he faltered"" synonyms: stammer, stutter, stumble   v. move unsteadily or in a way that shows lack of confidence. ""he faltered and finally stopped in midstride"" synonyms: struggle, stumble, flounder, founder, be in difficulty ""the economy was faltering"""
rattle	"/ˈradl/ v. cause (someone) to feel nervous, worried, or irritated. ""she turned quickly, rattled by his presence"" synonyms: unnerve, disconcert, disturb, fluster, shake, perturb, discompose, discomfit, ruffle, throw ""the government was rattled by the strike""   v. make or cause to make a rapid succession of short, sharp knocking sounds, typically as a result of shaking and striking repeatedly against a hard surface or object. ""he rattled some change in his pocket"" synonyms: clatter, patter   n. a rapid succession of short, sharp, hard sounds. ""the rattle of teacups on the tray"" synonyms: clatter, clank, clink, clang"
entrenched	"/inˈtren(t)SHt/ adj. (of an attitude, habit, or belief) firmly established and difficult or unlikely to change; ingrained. ""an entrenched resistance to change"""
decisive	"/dəˈsīsiv/adj. settling an issue; producing a definite result. ""the Supreme Court voided the statute by a decisive 7–2 vote"" synonyms: deciding, conclusive, determining   adj. (of a person) having or showing the ability to make decisions quickly and effectively. synonyms: resolute, firm, strong-minded, strong-willed, determined"
farce	"/färs/ n. a comic dramatic work using buffoonery and horseplay and typically including crude characterization and ludicrously improbable situations. synonyms: slapstick comedy, slapstick, burlesque, vaudeville, buffoonery ""the stories approach farce""   n. an absurd event. ""the debate turned into a drunken farce"" synonyms: mockery, travesty, absurdity, sham, pretense, masquerade, charade, joke, waste of time ""the trial was a farce"""
furrow	"/ˈfərō/ v. make a rut, groove, or trail in (the ground or the surface of something). ""gorges furrowing the deep-sea floor""   v. (with reference to the forehead or face) mark or be marked with lines or wrinkles caused by frowning, anxiety, or concentration. ""a look of concern furrowed his brow"" synonyms: wrinkle, crease, line, crinkle, pucker, screw up, scrunch up, corrugate ""his brow furrowed"""
deter	"/dəˈtər/ v. discourage (someone) from doing something, typically by instilling doubt or fear of the consequences. ""only a health problem would deter him from seeking re-election"" synonyms: discourage, dissuade, put off, scare off antonyms: encourage   v. prevent the occurrence of. ""strategists think not only about how to deter war, but about how war might occur"" synonyms: prevent, stop, avert, fend off, stave off, ward off, block, halt, check antonyms: encourage"
priggish	"/ˈpriɡiSH/ adj. self-righteously moralistic and superior. ""a priggish little pedant"" synonyms: self-righteous, moralistic, holier-than-thou, sanctimonious, prudish, puritanical, prim, strait-laced, stuffy, prissy, governessy, narrow-minded"
prim	"/prim/ adj. stiffly formal and respectable; feeling or showing disapproval of anything regarded as improper. ""a very prim and proper lady"" synonyms: demure, proper, prim and proper, formal, stuffy, strait-laced, prudish   v. purse (the mouth or lips) into a prim expression. ""Larry primmed up his mouth"""
alight	"/əˈlīt/ v. (of a bird) descend from the air and settle. ""a lovely blue swallow alighted on a branch"" synonyms: land, come to rest, settle, perch, light   v. descend from a train, bus, or other form of transportation. ""the conductor alights to push the cable car completely around"" synonyms: get off, step off, disembark from, pile out of"
roost	"/ro͞ost/ n. a place where birds regularly settle or congregate to rest at night, or where bats congregate to rest in the day.   v. (of a bird or bat) settle or congregate for rest or sleep. ""migrating martins and swallows were settling to roost"""
shimmer	"/ˈSHimər/ v. shine with a soft tremulous light. ""the sea shimmered in the sunlight"" synonyms: glint, glisten, twinkle, sparkle, flash, scintillate, gleam, glow, glimmer, glitter, wink"
brass	"/bras/ n. a yellow alloy of copper and zinc. ""a brass plate on the door"""
strew	"/stro͞o/ v. scatter or spread (things) untidily over a surface or area. ""a small room with newspapers strewn all over the floor"" synonyms: scatter, spread, disperse, litter, toss ""rose petals were strewn along the aisle"""
brazen	"/ˈbrāzən/ adj. bold and without shame. ""he went about his illegal business with a brazen assurance"" synonyms: bold, shameless, unashamed, unabashed, unembarrassed   v. endure an embarrassing or difficult situation by behaving with apparent confidence and lack of shame. synonyms: put on a bold front, stand one's ground, be defiant, be unrepentant, be unabashed ""we were shaking in our boots, but we brazened it out"""
prudish	"/ˈpro͞odiSH/ adj. having or revealing a tendency to be easily shocked by matters relating to sex or nudity; excessively concerned with sexual propriety. ""the prudish moral climate of the late 19th century"" synonyms: puritanical, priggish, prim, prim and proper, moralistic, pietistic, sententious, censorious, strait-laced, Victorian, old-maidish, governessy, fussy, stuffy, strict"
stuffy	"/ˈstəfē/ adj. (of a place) lacking fresh air or ventilation. ""a stuffy, overcrowded office"" synonyms: airless, close, musty, stale   adj. (of a person) not receptive to new or unusual ideas and behavior ""he was steady and rather stuffy"" synonyms: staid, sedate, sober, prim, priggish, strait-laced, conformist, conservative, old-fashioned, governessy"
sedate	"/səˈdāt/adj. calm, dignified, and unhurried. ""in the old days, business was carried on at a rather more sedate pace"" synonyms: slow, steady, dignified, unhurried, relaxed, measured, leisurely, slow-moving, easy, easygoing, gentle   v. calm (someone) or make them sleep by administering a sedative drug. ""she was heavily sedated"" synonyms: tranquilize, put under sedation, drug ""the patient had to be sedated"""
staid	"/stād/ adj. sedate, respectable, and unadventurous. ""staid law firms"" synonyms: sedate, respectable, quiet, serious, serious-minded, steady, conventional, traditional, unadventurous, unenterprising, set in one's ways"
pietism	/ˈpīəˌtizəm/ n. pious sentiment, especially of an exaggerated or affected nature.
puritan	/ˈpyo͝oəridən/ n. a person who is strict in moral or religious matters, often excessively so.
bloc	"/bläk/ n. a combination of countries, parties, or groups sharing a common purpose. ""a center-left voting bloc"" synonyms: alliance, coalition, federation, confederation, league, union, partnership, axis, body, association, group ""a free-trade bloc"""
libel	"/ˈlībəl/ n. a published false statement that is damaging to a person's reputation; a written defamation. synonyms: defamation, defamation of character, character assassination, calumny, misrepresentation, scandalmongering   v. defame (someone) by publishing a libel. ""she alleged the magazine had libeled her"" synonyms: defame, malign, slander, blacken someone's name, sully someone's reputation, speak ill/evil of, traduce, smear, cast aspersions on, drag someone's name through the mud, besmirch, tarnish, taint, tell lies about, stain, impugn someone's character/integrity, vilify, denigrate, disparage, run down, stigmatize, discredit, slur"
woo	"/wo͞o/ v. try to gain the love of (someone, typically a woman), especially with a view to marriage. ""he wooed her with quotes from Shakespeare"" synonyms: romantically pursue, pursue, chase (after)   v. seek the favor, support, or custom of. ""pop stars are being wooed by film companies eager to sign them up"" synonyms: seek, pursue, curry favor with, try to win, try to attract, try to cultivate ""the party wooed voters with promises"""
vanquish	"/ˈvaNGkwiSH/ v. defeat thoroughly. ""Mexican forces vanquished the French army in a battle in Puebla"" synonyms: conquer, defeat, beat, trounce, rout, triumph over, be victorious over, get the better of, worst, upset"
distend	"/dəˈstend/ v. swell or cause to swell by pressure from inside. ""the abdomen distended rapidly"" synonyms: swollen, bloated, dilated, engorged, enlarged, inflated, expanded, extended, bulging, protuberant ""a distended abdomen"""
vitriol	"/ˈvitrēəl/ n. cruel and bitter criticism. ""her mother's sudden gush of fury and vitriol"""
spite	"/spīt/ n. a desire to hurt, annoy, or offend someone. ""he'd think I was saying it out of spite"" synonyms: malice, malevolence, ill will, vindictiveness, vengefulness, revenge, malignity, evil intentions, animus, enmity   v. deliberately hurt, annoy, or offend (someone). ""he put the house up for sale to spite his family"" synonyms: upset, hurt, make miserable, grieve, distress, wound, pain, torment, injure ""he did it to spite me"""
gallbladder	/ˈɡôlˌbladər/ n. a small, pear-shaped muscular sac in most vertebrates in which bile is stored. The gallbladder is located beneath the liver and secretes bile into the duodenum of the small intestine.
bile	"/bīl/ n. a bitter greenish-brown alkaline fluid that aids digestion and is secreted by the liver and stored in the gallbladder.   n. anger; irritability. ""that topic is sure to stir up plenty of bile"""
snappish	/ˈsnapiSH/ adj. (of a dog) irritable and inclined to bite.
dyspeptic	/disˈpeptik/ adj. of or having indigestion or consequent irritability or depression. synonyms: bad-tempered, short-tempered, irritable, snappish, testy, tetchy, touchy, crabby, crotchety, grouchy, cantankerous, peevish, cross, disagreeable, waspish, prickly
waspish	"/ˈwäspiSH/ adj. readily expressing anger or irritation. ""he had a waspish tongue"" synonyms: irritable, touchy, testy, cross, snappish, cantankerous, splenetic, short-tempered, bad-tempered, moody, ornery, crotchety, crabby ""he's a waspish old geezer"""
mire	"/ˈmī(ə)r/ v. cause to become stuck in mud. ""sometimes a heavy truck gets mired down"" synonyms: bog down, sink (down) ""Frank's horse got mired in a bog""   v. involve someone or something in (a difficult situation). ""the economy is mired in its longest recession since World War II"" synonyms: entangle, tangle up, embroil, catch up, mix up, involve ""he has become mired in lawsuits"""
achingly	"/ˈākiNGlē/ adv. in a way that arouses or expresses intense sorrow or longing. ""the letters are achingly tender"""
harrow	"/ˈherō/ v. cause distress to. ""Todd could take it, whereas I'm harrowed by it"" synonyms: distress, trouble, bother, afflict, grieve, torment, disturb, pain, hurt, mortify"
punitive	"/ˈpyo͞onədiv/ adj. inflicting or intended as punishment. ""he called for punitive measures against the Eastern bloc"" synonyms: penal, disciplinary, corrective, correctional, retributive ""punitive measures"""
funnel	"/ˈfənl/ n. a tube or pipe that is wide at the top and narrow at the bottom, used for guiding liquid or powder into a small opening. synonyms: tube, pipe, channel, conduit ""fluid was poured through the funnel""   v. guide or channel (something) through or as if through a funnel. ""some $12.8 billion was funneled through the Marshall Plan"" synonyms: channel, feed, direct, pump, convey, move, pass"
thwart	"/THwôrt/ v. prevent (someone) from accomplishing something. ""he never did anything to thwart his father"""
squint	"/skwint/ v. look at someone or something with one or both eyes partly closed in an attempt to see more clearly or as a reaction to strong light. ""the bright sun made them squint"" synonyms: screw up one's eyes, narrow one's eyes, peer, blink ""the sun made them squint""   v. have eyes that look in different directions. ""Melanie did not squint"" synonyms: be cross-eyed, have a squint, suffer from strabismus ""he has squinted from birth"""
quirk	"/kwərk/ n. a peculiar behavioral habit. ""his distaste for travel is an endearing quirk"" synonyms: idiosyncrasy, peculiarity, oddity, eccentricity, foible, whim, vagary, caprice, fancy, crotchet, habit, characteristic, trait, fad ""they all know his quirks""   v. (with reference to a person's mouth or eyebrow) move or twist suddenly, especially to express surprise or amusement."
swath	"/swäTH/ n. a broad strip or area of something. ""vast swaths of countryside"""
scorching	"/ˈskôrCHiNG/ adj. very hot. ""the scorching July sun"" synonyms: extremely hot, red-hot, blazing, flaming, fiery, burning, blistering, searing, sweltering, torrid, broiling   adj. (of criticism) harsh; severe. synonyms: fierce, savage, scathing, withering, blistering, searing, devastating, stringent, severe, harsh, stinging, biting, mordant, trenchant, caustic, virulent, vitriolic ""scorching criticism"""
tantamount	"/ˈtan(t)əˌmount/ adj. equivalent in seriousness to; virtually the same as. ""the resignations were tantamount to an admission of guilt"" synonyms: equivalent to, equal to, as good as, more or less, much the same as, comparable to, on a par with, commensurate with ""this is tantamount to mutiny"""
battered	"/ˈbadərd/ adj. injured by repeated blows or punishment. ""he finished the day battered and bruised""   adj. having suffered repeated violence from a spouse, partner, or parent. ""a battered wife"" synonyms: damaged, shabby, run-down, worn out, beat-up, falling to pieces, falling apart, dilapidated, rickety, ramshackle, crumbling, the worse for wear, on its last legs; abused ""a battered boat drifted to shore"""
delinquent	"/dəˈliNGkwənt/ adj. (typically of a young person or that person's behavior) showing or characterized by a tendency to commit crime, particularly minor crime. ""delinquent children"" synonyms: lawless, lawbreaking, criminal"
jarring	"/ˈjäriNG/ adj. incongruous in a striking or shocking way; clashing. ""the telephone struck a jarring note in those Renaissance surroundings""   adj. causing a physical shock, jolt, or vibration. ""the truck came to a jarring halt"""
scrap	"/skrap/  v. abolish or cancel (something, especially a plan, policy, or law) that is now regarded as unnecessary, unwanted, or unsuitable. ""the station scrapped plans to televise the contest live"" synonyms: abandon, drop, abolish, withdraw, throw out, do away with, put an end to, cancel, ax, jettison"
misgiving	"/ˌmisˈɡiviNG/ n. a feeling of doubt or apprehension about the outcome or consequences of something. ""we have misgivings about the way the campaign is being run"" synonyms: qualm, doubt, reservation"
emphatic	"/əmˈfadik/ adj. showing or giving emphasis; expressing something forcibly and clearly. ""the children were emphatic that they would like to repeat the experience"" synonyms: vehement, firm, wholehearted, forceful, forcible, energetic, vigorous, direct, assertive, insistent antonyms: hesitant, tentative   adj. (of an action or event or its result) definite and clear. ""he walked stiffly, with an emphatic limp"" synonyms: conclusive, decisive, decided, unmistakable antonyms: narrow"
armistice	"/ˈärməstəs/n. an agreement made by opposing sides in a war to stop fighting for a certain time; a truce. synonyms: truce, ceasefire, peace, suspension of hostilities ""the armistice was declared on November 11"""
shelve	"/SHelv/ v. decide not to proceed with (a project or plan), either temporarily or permanently. ""plans to reopen the school have been shelved"" synonyms: postpone, put off, delay, defer, put back, reschedule, hold over/off, put to one side, suspend, stay, keep in abeyance, mothball"
pit	"/pit/ v. set someone or something in conflict or competition with. ""a chance to pit herself against him""   v. make a hollow or indentation in the surface of. ""rain poured down, pitting the bare earth"" synonyms: make holes in, make hollows in, dent, indent ""raindrops pitted the bare earth"""
sow	"/sō/v. plant (seed) by scattering it on or in the earth. ""sow a thin layer of seeds on top"" synonyms: plant, scatter, spread, disperse, strew, disseminate, distribute, broadcast   v. cause to appear or spread. ""the new policy has sown confusion and doubt"" synonyms: cause, bring about, occasion, create, lead to, produce, spread, engender, generate, prompt, initiate, precipitate, trigger, provoke"
nettlesome	"/ˈnedlsəm/ adj. causing annoyance or difficulty. ""complicated and nettlesome regional disputes"""
cap	"/cap/ v. put a lid or cover on. ""he capped his pen""   v. provide a fitting climax or conclusion to. ""he capped a memorable season by becoming champion"" synonyms: round off, crown, top off, be a fitting climax to ""his breakaway goal capped a great game""   v. follow or reply to (a story, remark, or joke) by producing a better or more apposite one. ""they capped each other's stories"" synonyms: beat, better, improve on, surpass, outdo, outshine, outstrip, top, upstage   v. place a limit or restriction on (prices, expenditure, or other activity). ""council budgets will be capped"" synonyms: set a limit on, limit, restrict"
buttress	"/ˈbətrəs/ n. a source of defense or support. ""there was a demand for a new stable order as a buttress against social collapse"" synonyms: safeguard, defense, protection, guard   v. increase the strength of or justification for; reinforce. ""authority was buttressed by religious belief"" synonyms: strengthen, reinforce, fortify, support, bolster, shore up, underpin, cement, uphold, prop up, defend, sustain, back up ""strategic design was buttressed by the detailed staff work"""
muddy	"/ˈmədē/ v. cause to become covered in or full of mud. ""the linoleum floor was muddied"" synonyms: make muddy, dirty, soil, spatter, bespatter   v. make (something) hard to perceive or understand. ""the first year's results muddy rather than clarify the situation"" synonyms: make unclear, obscure, confuse, obfuscate, blur, cloud, befog ""these results muddy the situation"" antonyms: clarify"
fount	"/fount/ n. a source of a desirable quality or commodity. ""our courier was a fount of knowledge"""
giddy	"/ˈɡidē/ adj. having a sensation of whirling and a tendency to fall or stagger; dizzy. ""I felt giddy and had to steady myself"" synonyms: dizzy, lightheaded, faint, weak, vertiginous antonyms: steady   adj. excitable and frivolous. ""her giddy young sister-in-law"" synonyms: flighty, silly, frivolous, skittish, irresponsible, flippant, whimsical, capricious antonyms: sensible"
apprehension	"/ˌaprəˈhenSHən/ n. anxiety or fear that something bad or unpleasant will happen. ""he felt sick with apprehension"" synonyms: anxiety, worry, unease, nervousness, nerves, misgivings, disquiet, concern, tension, trepidation, perturbation, consternation, angst, dread, alarm, fear, foreboding antonyms: confidence   n. the action of arresting someone. ""they acted with intent to prevent lawful apprehension"" synonyms: arrest, capture, seizure"
incur	"/inˈkər/ v. become subject to (something unwelcome or unpleasant) as a result of one's own behavior or actions. ""I will pay any expenses incurred"" synonyms: bring upon oneself, expose oneself to, lay oneself open to"
ditch	"/diCH/ n. a narrow channel dug in the ground, typically used for drainage alongside a road or the edge of a field. synonyms: trench, trough, channel, dike, drain, gutter, gully, watercourse, conduit ""she rescued a cat from the ditch""   v. get rid of; give up. ""it crossed her mind to ditch her shoes and run"" synonyms: throw out, throw away, discard, get rid of, dispose of, do away with, deep-six, shed"
circumscribe	"/ˈsərkəmˌskrīb/ v. restrict (something) within limits. ""their movements were strictly monitored and circumscribed"" synonyms: restrict, limit, keep within bounds, curb, confine, restrain"
etiolated	"/ˈēdēəˌlādəd/ adj. (of a plant) pale and drawn out due to a lack of light. ""etiolated mung bean seedlings""   adj. having lost vigor or substance; feeble. ""a tone of etiolated nostalgia"""
boisterous	"/ˈboist(ə)rəs/ adj. (of a person, event, or behavior) noisy, energetic, and cheerful; rowdy. ""the boisterous conviviality associated with taverns of that period"" synonyms: lively, animated, exuberant, spirited, rambunctious antonyms: restrained, quiet   adj. (of wind, weather, or water) wild or stormy. ""the boisterous wind was lulled"" synonyms: blustery, gusty, windy, stormy, wild, squally, tempestuous antonyms: calm"
wan	"/wän/ adj. (of a person's complexion or appearance) pale and giving the impression of illness or exhaustion. ""she was looking wan and bleary-eyed"" synonyms: pale, pallid, ashen, white, gray antonyms: flushed   adj. (of light) pale; weak. ""the wan dawn light"" synonyms: dim, faint, weak, feeble, pale, watery, washy ""the wan light of the moon"" antonyms: bright"
discreet	"/diˈskrēt/ adj. careful and circumspect in one's speech or actions, especially in order to avoid causing offense or to gain an advantage. ""we made some discreet inquiries"" synonyms: careful, circumspect, cautious, wary, chary, guarded   adj. intentionally unobtrusive. ""a discreet cough"" synonyms: unobtrusive, inconspicuous, subtle, low-key, understated, subdued, muted, soft, restrained ""discreet lighting"""
obtrusive	"/əbˈtro͞osiv/ adj. noticeable or prominent in an unwelcome or intrusive way. ""high-powered satellites can reach smaller and less obtrusive antennas"" synonyms: conspicuous, prominent, noticeable, obvious, unmistakable antonyms: unobtrusive, inconspicuous"
undue	"/ˌənˈd(y)o͞o/ adj. unwarranted or inappropriate because excessive or disproportionate. ""this figure did not give rise to undue concern"" synonyms: excessive, immoderate, intemperate, inordinate, disproportionate antonyms: appropriate"
mischievous	"/ˈmisCHivəs/ adj. (of a person, animal, or their behavior) causing or showing a fondness for causing trouble in a playful way. ""two mischievous kittens had decorated the bed with shredded newspaper"" synonyms: naughty, badly behaved, misbehaving, disobedient, troublesome, full of mischief antonyms: well behaved   adj. (of an action or thing) causing or intended to cause harm or trouble. ""a mischievous allegation for which there is not a shred of evidence"""
jubilant	/ˈjo͞obələnt/ adj. feeling or expressing great happiness and triumph. synonyms: overjoyed, exultant, triumphant, joyful, rejoicing, exuberant, elated, thrilled, gleeful, euphoric, ecstatic, enraptured, in raptures, walking on air, in seventh heaven, on cloud nine antonyms: despondent
relay	"/rēˌlā/ v. receive and pass on (information or a message). ""she intended to relay everything she had learned"" synonyms: pass on, hand on, transfer, repeat, communicate, send, transmit, disseminate, spread, circulate ""the PA announcer relayed this message to the crowd"""
reassuring	"/ˌrēəˈSHo͝or/ v. say or do something to remove the doubts and fears of someone. ""he understood her feelings and tried to reassure her"" synonyms: put/set someone's mind at rest, put someone at ease, encourage, inspirit, hearten, buoy up, cheer up antonyms: alarm"
unfailing	"/ˌənˈfāliNG/ adj. without error or fault. ""his unfailing memory for names""   adj. reliable or constant. ""his mother had always been an unfailing source of reassurance"" synonyms: constant, reliable, dependable, steadfast, steady"
ostensibly	"/əˈstensiblē/ adv. apparently or purportedly, but perhaps not actually. ""portrayed as a blue-collar type, ostensibly a carpenter"" synonyms: apparently, seemingly, on the face of it, to all intents and purposes, outwardly, superficially, allegedly, supposedly, purportedly ""it is ostensibly a book about football"""
notwithstanding	"/ˌnätwiTHˈstandiNG/ prep. in spite of. ""notwithstanding the evidence, the consensus is that the jury will not reach a verdict"" synonyms: despite, in spite of, regardless of, for all ""notwithstanding his workload, he is a dedicated father""   adv. nevertheless; in spite of this. ""she tells us she is an intellectual; notwithstanding, she faces the future as unprovided for as a beauty queen"" synonyms: nevertheless, nonetheless, even so, all the same, in spite of this, despite this, however, still, yet, that said, just the same, anyway, in any event, at any rate ""she is bright and ambitious—notwithstanding, she is now jobless"""
albeit	"/ôlˈbēit/ conj. although. ""he was making progress, albeit rather slowly"""
hence	"/hens/ adv. as a consequence; for this reason. ""a stiff breeze and hence a high windchill"" synonyms: consequently, as a consequence, for this reason, therefore, ergo, thus, so, accordingly, as a result, because of that, that being so ""the amount of traffic—and hence the amount of pollution—will be reduced""   adv. in the future (used after a period of time). ""two years hence they might say something quite different"""
heretofore	"/ˌhirdəˈfôr/ adv. before now. ""diseases that heretofore were usually confined to rural areas"""
sovereignty	"/ˈsäv(ə)rən(t)ē/ n. supreme power or authority. ""how can we hope to wrest sovereignty away from the oligarchy and back to the people?"" synonyms: jurisdiction, rule, supremacy, dominion, power, ascendancy, suzerainty, hegemony, domination, authority, control, influence ""their sovereignty over the islands""   n. the authority of a state to govern itself or another state. ""national sovereignty"" synonyms: autonomy, independence, self-government, self-rule, home rule, self-determination, freedom ""the colony demanded full sovereignty"""
regent	"/ˈrējənt/ n. a person appointed to administer a country because the monarch is a minor or is absent or incapacitated.   adj. acting as regent for a monarch. ""the queen regent of Portugal"""
expediency	"/ikˈspēdēənsē/ n. the quality of being convenient and practical despite possibly being improper or immoral; convenience. ""an act of political expediency"""
waft	"/wäft/ v. pass or cause to pass easily or gently through or as if through the air. ""the smell of stale fat wafted out from the cafe"" synonyms: drift, float, glide, whirl, travel"
slumber	"/ˈsləmbər/ v. sleep. ""Sleeping Beauty slumbered in her forest castle""   n. a sleep. ""scaring folk from their slumbers"""
ally	"/əˈlī/ v. combine or unite a resource or commodity with (another) for mutual benefit. ""he allied his racing experience with his father's business acumen"" synonyms: combine, marry, couple, merge, amalgamate, join, fuse antonyms: split   v. side with or support (someone or something). ""he allied himself with the forces of change"" synonyms: unite, combine, join (up), join forces, band together, team up, collaborate, side, align oneself, form an alliance, throw in one's lot, make common cause ""the Catholic powers allied with Philip II"" antonyms: split"
billow	"/ˈbilō/ v. (of fabric) fill with air and swell outward. ""her dress billowed out around her"" synonyms: puff up/out, balloon (out), swell, fill (out), belly out   v. (of smoke, cloud, or steam) move or flow outward with an undulating motion. ""smoke was billowing from the chimney"" synonyms: swirl, spiral, roll, undulate, eddy"
oleaginous	"/ˌōlēˈajənəs/ adj. rich in, covered with, or producing oil; oily or greasy.   adj. exaggeratedly and distastefully complimentary; obsequious. ""candidates made the usual oleaginous speeches in the debate"""
ordeal	"/ôrˈdēl/ n. a painful or horrific experience, especially a protracted one. ""the ordeal of having to give evidence"" synonyms: unpleasant experience, painful experience, trial, tribulation, nightmare, trauma, hell (on earth), misery, trouble, difficulty, torture, torment, agony ""the hostages survived the ordeal"""
plunge	"/plənj/ v. jump or dive quickly and energetically. ""our daughters whooped as they plunged into the sea"" synonyms: jump, dive, hurl oneself, throw oneself, fling oneself, launch oneself, catapult oneself, cast oneself, pitch oneself ""Joy stripped her clothes off and plunged into the sea""   v. push or thrust quickly. ""he plunged his hands into his pockets"" synonyms: thrust, stick, ram, drive, jab, stab, push, shove, force, sink ""he plunged the dagger into the man's back"""
disseminate	"/dəˈseməˌnāt/ v. spread or disperse (something, especially information) widely. ""health authorities should foster good practice by disseminating information"" synonyms: spread, circulate, distribute, disperse, promulgate, propagate, publicize, communicate, pass on, put about, make known ""much of our funding is used to disseminate information where it is most needed"""
rig	"/riɡ/  v. set up (equipment or a device or structure), typically hastily or in makeshift fashion. ""he had rigged up a sort of tent"" synonyms: set up, erect, assemble, build   v. provide (someone) with clothes of a particular style or type. ""a cavalry regiment rigged out in green and gold"" synonyms: dress, clothe, attire, robe, garb, array, deck out, drape, accoutre, outfit, get up, trick out/up"
plow	"/plou/ v. turn up the earth of (an area of land) with a plow, especially before sowing. ""Uncle Vic plowed his garden"" synonyms: till, furrow, harrow, cultivate, work, break up ""the fields were plowed""   v. (especially of a vehicle) move in a fast and uncontrolled manner. ""the car plowed into the side of a van"" synonyms: crash, smash, career, plunge, bulldoze, hurtle, careen, cannon, run, drive, barrel"
careen	"/kəˈrēn/ v. turn (a ship) on its side for cleaning, caulking, or repair.   v. move swiftly and in an uncontrolled way in a specified direction. ""an electric golf cart careened around the corner"" synonyms: rush, hurtle, career, streak, shoot, race, bolt, dash, speed, run, whiz, zoom, flash, blast, charge, fly, go like the wind, belt, scoot, tear, zip, whip, zap, go like a bat out of hell, bomb, hightail, clip ""the car careened down the highway"""
admonish	"/ədˈmäniSH/ v. warn or reprimand someone firmly. ""she admonished me for appearing at breakfast unshaven"" synonyms: reprimand, rebuke, scold, reprove, reproach, upbraid, chastise, chide, berate, criticize, take to task, read the riot act to, rake/haul over the coals   v. advise or urge (someone) earnestly. ""she admonished him to drink no more than one glass of wine"" synonyms: advise, recommend, counsel, urge, exhort, bid, enjoin"
debonair	/ˌdebəˈner/ adj. (of a man) confident, stylish, and charming. synonyms: suave, urbane, sophisticated, cultured, self-possessed, self-assured, confident, charming, gracious, courteous, gallant, chivalrous, gentlemanly, refined, polished, well bred, genteel, dignified, courtly antonyms: unsophisticated
uncouth	"/ˌənˈko͞oTH/ adj. (of a person or their appearance or behavior) lacking good manners, refinement, or grace. ""he is unwashed, uncouth, and drunk most of the time"" synonyms: uncivilized, uncultured, uncultivated, unrefined, unpolished, unsophisticated, bush-league, common, plebeian, low, rough, rough-hewn, coarse, loutish, boorish, oafish, troglodyte antonyms: refined   adj. (especially of art or language) lacking sophistication or delicacy. ""uncouth sketches of peasants"""
wrath	"/raTH/ n. extreme anger (chiefly used for humorous or rhetorical effect). ""he hid his pipe for fear of incurring his father's wrath"" synonyms: anger, rage, fury, outrage, spleen, vexation, (high) dudgeon, crossness, displeasure, annoyance, irritation antonyms: happiness"
trafficker	"/ˈtrafikər/ n. a person who deals or trades in something illegal. ""a convicted drug trafficker"""
wring	"/riNG/ v. squeeze and twist (something) to force liquid from it. ""she wrung the cloth out in the sink"" synonyms: twist, squeeze, screw, scrunch, knead, press, mangle ""wring out the clothes"""
wrest	"/rest/ v. forcibly pull (something) from a person's grasp. ""Leila tried to wrest her arm from his hold"" synonyms: wrench, snatch, seize, grab, pry, pluck, tug, pull, jerk, dislodge, remove ""he wrested the broom from Angela's grasp"""
sobriquet	/ˈsōbrəˌkā/ n. a person's nickname.
suckle	"/ˈsək(ə)l/ v. feed (a baby or young animal) from the breast or teat. ""a mother pig suckling a huge litter"" synonyms: breastfeed, feed, nurse ""the lioness suckled her cubs"""
belch	"/belCH/ v. emit gas noisily from the stomach through the mouth. synonyms: burp ""onions make me belch""   v. (especially of a chimney) send (smoke or flames) out or up. ""a factory chimney belches out smoke"" synonyms: emit, give off, give out, pour out, discharge, disgorge, spew out, spit out, vomit, gush, cough up ""the furnace belched flames"""
boo	"/bo͞o/ v. say “boo” to show disapproval or contempt. ""they booed and hissed when he stepped on stage"" synonyms: jeer, heckle, catcall, hiss, hector ""booed by the audience"" antonyms: cheer, applaud"
gnaw	"/nô/ v. bite at or nibble something persistently. ""watching a dog gnaw at a big bone"" synonyms: chew, chomp, champ, bite, munch, crunch; nibble   v. cause persistent and wearing distress or anxiety. ""the doubts continued to gnaw at me"" synonyms: nag, plague, torment, torture, trouble, distress, worry, haunt, oppress, burden, hang over, bother, fret; niggle at"
wallop	"/wäləp/ v. strike or hit (someone or something) very hard. ""they walloped the back of his head with a stick"""
hiatus	"/hīˈādəs/ n. a pause or gap in a sequence, series, or process. ""there was a brief hiatus in the war with France"" synonyms: pause, break, gap, lacuna, interval, intermission, interlude, interruption, suspension, lull, respite, time out, time off, recess"
kindred	"/ˈkindrəd/ n. one's family and relations. synonyms: family, relatives, relations, kin, kith and kin, one's own flesh and blood   adj. similar in kind; related. ""books on kindred subjects"" synonyms: related, allied, connected, comparable, similar, like, parallel, associated, analogous ""industrial relations and kindred subjects"""
jeer	"/jir/ v. make rude and mocking remarks, typically in a loud voice. ""some of the younger men jeered at him"" synonyms: taunt, mock, scoff at, ridicule, sneer at, deride, insult, abuse, heckle, catcall at, boo, whistle at, jibe at, hiss at ""the demonstrators jeered at the police"""
taunt	"/tônt/ n. a remark made in order to anger, wound, or provoke someone. synonyms: jeer, jibe, sneer, insult, barb, catcall   v. provoke or challenge (someone) with insulting remarks. ""students began taunting her about her weight"" synonyms: jeer at, sneer at, scoff at, poke fun at, make fun of, get at, insult, tease, chaff, torment, goad, ridicule, deride, mock, heckle, ride"
amass	"/əˈmas/ v. gather together or accumulate (a large amount or number of valuable material or things) over a period of time. ""starting from nothing he had amassed a huge fortune"" synonyms: gather, collect, assemble"
weigh	"/wā/ v. assess the nature or importance of, especially with a view to a decision or action. ""the consequences of the move would need to be very carefully weighed"" synonyms: consider, contemplate, think about, mull over, chew over, reflect on, ruminate about, muse on"
prescient	"/ˈpreSH(ē)ənt/ adj. having or showing knowledge of events before they take place. ""a prescient warning"" synonyms: prophetic, predictive, visionary"
pauper	"/ˈpôpər/  n. a very poor person. synonyms: poor person, indigent, down-and-out ""the story of a lowly pauper who rises to the top of a major crime syndicate"""
lugubrious	/ləˈɡ(y)o͞obrēəs/ adj. looking or sounding sad and dismal. synonyms: mournful, gloomy, sad, unhappy, doleful, glum, melancholy, woeful, miserable, woebegone, forlorn, somber, solemn, serious, sorrowful, morose, dour, cheerless, joyless, dismal
pedestal	"/ˈpedəstl/ n. the base or support on which a statue, obelisk, or column is mounted. synonyms: plinth, base, support, mounting, stand, foundation, pillar, column, pier; socle ""a bust on a pedestal""   n. a position in which someone is greatly or uncritically admired. ""It's as if I'm on a pedestal and he worships me – I hate that"" synonyms: idealize, lionize, look up to, respect, hold in high regard, think highly of, admire, esteem, revere, worship ""if you put me on a pedestal, I'll eventually disappoint you"""
impediment	"/imˈpedəmənt/ n. a hindrance or obstruction in doing something. ""a serious impediment to scientific progress"" synonyms: hindrance, obstruction, obstacle, barrier, bar, block, handicap, check, curb, restriction, limitation"
retorte	"/rəˈtôrt/ v. say something in answer to a remark or accusation, typically in a sharp, angry, or wittily incisive manner. ""“No need to be rude,” retorted Isabel"" synonyms: answer, reply, respond, say in response, return, counter, rejoin, riposte, retaliate, snap back ""“Oh, sure,” she retorted"""
effuse	"/əˈfyo͞oz/ v. give off (a liquid, light, smell, or quality).   v. talk in an unrestrained, excited manner. ""this was the type of material that they effused about"""
dearly	"/ˈdirlē/ adv. very much. ""he loved his parents dearly"" synonyms: very much, a great deal, greatly, deeply, profoundly, extremely   adv. with much loss or suffering; at great cost. ""freedom to worship our religion has been bought dearly"" synonyms: at great cost, at a high price, with much suffering, with much sacrifice ""our freedom has been bought dearly"""
athwart	"/əˈTHwôrt/ prep. from side to side of; across. ""a long counter thrown athwart the entranceway""   prep. in opposition to; counter to. ""these statistics run sharply athwart conventional presumptions"""
overt	"/ōˈvərt/ adj. done or shown openly; plainly or readily apparent, not secret or hidden. ""an overt act of aggression"" synonyms: undisguised, unconcealed, plain (to see), clear, apparent, conspicuous, obvious, noticeable, manifest, patent, open, blatant ""an overt attempt to sidestep the truth"""
inscrutable	"/inˈskro͞odəb(ə)l/ adj. impossible to understand or interpret. ""Guy looked blankly inscrutable"" synonyms: enigmatic, mysterious, unreadable, inexplicable, unexplainable, incomprehensible, impenetrable, unfathomable, unknowable"
deft	"/deft/ adj. neatly skillful and quick in one's movements.  ""a deft piece of footwork""   adj. demonstrating skill and cleverness. ""the script was both deft and literate"" synonyms: skillful, adept, adroit, dexterous, agile, nimble, handy"
abet	"/əˈbet/ v. encourage or assist (someone) to do something wrong, in particular, to commit a crime or other offense. ""he was not guilty of murder but was guilty of aiding and abetting others"" synonyms: assist, aid, help, lend a hand to, support, back, encourage   v. encourage or assist someone to commit (a crime). ""we are aiding and abetting this illegal traffic"""
parochial	"/pəˈrōkēəl/ adj. having a limited or narrow outlook or scope. ""this worldview seems incredibly naive and parochial"" synonyms: narrow-minded, small-minded, provincial, narrow, small-town, conservative, illiberal, intolerant ""she was constantly challenging their parochial approach to education"""
insular	"/ˈins(y)ələr/ adj. ignorant of or uninterested in cultures, ideas, or peoples outside one's own experience. ""a stubbornly insular farming people"" synonyms: narrow-minded, small-minded, inward-looking, parochial, provincial, small-town, shortsighted, hidebound, blinkered"
futile	"/ˈfyo͞odl/ adj. incapable of producing any useful result; pointless. ""a futile attempt to keep fans from mounting the stage"" synonyms: fruitless, vain, pointless, useless, ineffectual, ineffective, inefficacious, to no effect, of no use, in vain, to no avail, unavailing"
proscribe	"/prōˈskrīb/ v. forbid, especially by law. ""strikes remained proscribed in the armed forces"" synonyms: forbid, prohibit, ban, bar, interdict, make illegal, embargo, outlaw, disallow, veto; enjoin ""gambling was proscribed""   v. denounce or condemn. ""certain practices that the Catholic Church proscribed, such as polygyny"" synonyms: condemn, denounce, attack, criticize, censure, damn, reject, taboo ""the book was proscribed by the Church"""
ascribe	"/əˈskrīb/ v. attribute something to (a cause). ""he ascribed Jane's short temper to her upset stomach"" synonyms: attribute to, assign to, put down to, accredit to, credit to, chalk up to, impute to   v. regard (a quality) as belonging to. ""tough-mindedness is a quality commonly ascribed to top bosses"""
pugnacious	"/pəɡˈnāSHəs/ adj. eager or quick to argue, quarrel, or fight. ""the increasingly pugnacious demeanor of politicians"" synonyms: combative, aggressive, antagonistic, belligerent, bellicose, warlike, quarrelsome, argumentative, contentious, disputatious, hostile, threatening, truculent"
fastidious	"/faˈstidēəs/ adj. very attentive to and concerned about accuracy and detail. ""he chooses his words with fastidious care"" synonyms: scrupulous, punctilious, painstaking, meticulous"
venerate	"/ˈvenəˌrāt/ v. regard with great respect; revere. ""Mother Teresa is venerated as a saint"" synonyms: revere, regard highly, reverence, worship, hallow, hold sacred, exalt, vaunt, adore, honor, respect, esteem"
venereal	/vəˈnirēəl/adj. relating to sexual desire or sexual intercourse.
reprehend	"/ˌreprəˈhend/ v. reprimand. ""a recklessness that cannot be too severely reprehended"""
misapprehend	"/ˌmisˌaprəˈhend/ v. misunderstand (words, a person, a situation, etc.). synonyms: misunderstand, misinterpret, misconstrue, misconceive, mistake, misread, get the wrong idea about, take something the wrong way ""I fear you have misapprehended my intentions"""
protrude	"/prəˈtro͞od/ v. extend beyond or above a surface. ""something like a fin protruded from the water"" synonyms: stick out, jut (out), project, extend, stand out, bulge out, poke out, thrust out, cantilever"
intrude	"/inˈtro͞od/ v. put oneself deliberately into a place or situation where one is unwelcome or uninvited. ""he had no right to intrude into their lives"""
dainty	"/ˈdān(t)ē/ adj. delicately small and pretty. ""a dainty lace handkerchief""   adj. fastidious or difficult to please, typically concerning food. ""a dainty appetite"" synonyms: fastidious, fussy, finicky, particular, discriminating   n. something good to eat; a delicacy. synonyms: delicacy, tidbit, fancy, luxury, treat"
condign	/kənˈdīn/ adj. (of punishment or retribution) appropriate to the crime or wrongdoing; fitting and deserved.
confound	"/kənˈfound/ v. cause surprise or confusion in (someone), especially by acting against their expectations. ""the inflation figure confounded economic analysts"" synonyms: amaze, astonish, dumbfound, stagger, surprise, startle, stun, throw, shake, discompose, bewilder, bedazzle, baffle, mystify, bemuse, perplex, puzzle, confuse   v. mix up (something) with something else so that the individual elements become difficult to distinguish. ""'nuke' is now a cooking technique, as microwave radiation is confounded with nuclear radiation"""
preclude	"/prəˈklo͞od/ v. prevent from happening; make impossible. ""the secret nature of his work precluded official recognition"" synonyms: prevent, make it impossible for, rule out, stop, prohibit, debar, bar, hinder, impede, inhibit, exclude ""his difficulties preclude him from leading a normal life""   v. (of a situation or condition) prevent someone from doing something."
seclude	"/səˈklo͞od/ v. keep (someone) away from other people. ""I secluded myself up here for a life of study and meditation"""
recluse	/ˈrekˌlo͞os/ n. a person who lives a solitary life and tends to avoid other people. synonyms: hermit, ascetic, eremite, marabout
exasperate	"/iɡˈzaspəˌrāt/ v. irritate intensely; infuriate. ""this futile process exasperates prison officials"" synonyms: infuriate, incense, anger, annoy, irritate, madden, enrage, antagonize, provoke, irk, vex, get on someone's nerves, ruffle someone's feathers, rub the wrong way"
compulsive	"/kəmˈpəlsiv/ adj. resulting from or relating to an irresistible urge, especially one that is against one's conscious wishes. ""compulsive eating"" synonyms: irresistible, uncontrollable, compelling, overwhelming, urgent   adj. irresistibly interesting or exciting; compelling. ""this play is compulsive viewing"" synonyms: fascinating, compelling, gripping, riveting, engrossing, enthralling, captivating"
exoteric	"/ˌeksəˈterik/ adj. (especially of a doctrine or mode of speech) intended for or likely to be understood by the general public. ""an exoteric, literal meaning and an esoteric, inner teaching"""
exsanguine	/eksˈsaNGɡwin/ adj. bloodless; anemic.
consanguineous	"/ˌkänsaNGˈɡwinēəs/ adj. relating to or denoting people descended from the same ancestor. ""consanguineous marriages"""
sanguinary	/ˈsaNGɡwəˌnerē/ adj. involving or causing much bloodshed.
jocund	"/ˈjäkənd/ adj. cheerful and lighthearted. ""a jocund wedding party"""
forestall	"/fôrˈstôl/  v. prevent or obstruct (an anticipated event or action) by taking action ahead of time. ""vitamins may forestall many diseases of aging"" synonyms: preempt, get in before   v. act in advance of (someone) in order to prevent them from doing something. ""she started to rise, but Erica forestalled her and got the telephone"""
derivative	"/dəˈrivədiv/ adj. (typically of an artist or work of art) imitative of the work of another person, and usually disapproved of for that reason. ""an artist who is not in the slightest bit derivative"" synonyms: imitative, unoriginal, uninventive, unimaginative, uninspired   n. something that is based on another source. ""a derivative of the system was chosen for the Marine Corps’ V-22 tilt rotor aircraft"""
discursive	"/dəˈskərsiv/ adj. digressing from subject to subject. ""students often write dull, secondhand, discursive prose"" synonyms: rambling, digressive, meandering, wandering, maundering, diffuse, long, lengthy, wordy, verbose, long-winded, prolix"
ruse	"/ro͞oz/ n. an action intended to deceive someone; a trick. ""Eleanor tried to think of a ruse to get Paul out of the house"" synonyms: ploy, stratagem, tactic, scheme, trick, gambit, cunning plan, dodge, subterfuge, machination, wile ""his offer to help with my presentation was just a clever ruse"""
boon	"/bo͞on/ n. a thing that is helpful or beneficial. ""the navigation system will be a boon to both civilian and military users"" synonyms: blessing, godsend, bonus, plus, benefit, advantage, help, aid, asset"
inane	"/iˈnān/ adj. silly; stupid. ""don't constantly badger people with inane questions"" synonyms: silly, foolish, stupid, fatuous, idiotic, ridiculous, ludicrous, absurd, senseless, asinine, frivolous, vapid"
vacuous	"/ˈvakyo͞oəs/ adj. having or showing a lack of thought or intelligence; mindless. ""a vacuous smile"" synonyms: silly, inane, unintelligent, insipid, foolish, stupid, fatuous, idiotic, brainless, witless, vapid, vacant, empty-headed"
trifling	"/ˈtrīf(ə)liNG/ adj. unimportant or trivial. ""a trifling sum"" synonyms: trivial, unimportant, insignificant, inconsequential, petty, minor, of little/no account, of little/no consequence, footling, pettifogging, incidental"
scruple	"/ˈskro͞opəl/ n. a feeling of doubt or hesitation with regard to the morality or propriety of a course of action. ""I had no scruples about eavesdropping"" synonyms: qualms, compunction, pangs/twinges of conscience, hesitation, reservations, second thoughts, doubt(s), misgivings, uneasiness, reluctance   v. hesitate or be reluctant to do something that one thinks may be wrong. ""she doesn't scruple to ask her parents for money"" synonyms: hesitate to, be reluctant to, be loath to, have qualms about, have scruples about, have misgivings about, have reservations about, think twice about, balk to, demur to"
scrupulous	"/ˈskro͞opyələs/ adj. (of a person or process) diligent, thorough, and extremely attentive to details. ""the research has been carried out with scrupulous attention to detail"" synonyms: careful, meticulous, painstaking, thorough, assiduous, sedulous, attentive, conscientious, punctilious, searching, close, minute, rigorous, particular, strict   adj. very concerned to avoid doing wrong. ""she's too scrupulous to have an affair with a married man"" synonyms: honest, honorable, upright, upstanding, high-minded, right-minded, moral, ethical, good, virtuous, principled, incorruptible ""a scrupulous man"""
ostensible	"/əˈstensəb(ə)l/ adj. stated or appearing to be true, but not necessarily so. ""the delay may have a deeper cause than the ostensible reason"" ""there are of course dangers in taking ostensible motives as real ones"" synonyms: apparent, seeming, outward, surface, superficial, professed, supposed, avowed, presumed, so-called, alleged, declared, claimed, purported, pretended, feigned, specious"
unanimous	"/yo͞oˈnanəməs/ adj. (of two or more people) fully in agreement. ""the doctors were unanimous in their diagnoses"" synonyms: united, in agreement, in accord, of one mind, of the same mind, in harmony, concordant, undivided, as one ""doctors were unanimous about the effects""   adj. (of an opinion, decision, or vote) held or carried by everyone involved. synonyms: uniform, consistent, united, concerted, congruent ""a unanimous vote"""
soliloquy	"/səˈliləkwē/ n. an act of speaking one's thoughts aloud when by oneself or regardless of any hearers, especially by a character in a play. synonyms: monologue, speech, address, lecture, oration, sermon, homily, aside ""Viola ends the scene with a soliloquy"""
obloquy	"/ˈäbləkwē/ n. strong public criticism or verbal abuse. ""he endured years of contempt and obloquy"" synonyms: vilification, opprobrium, vituperation, condemnation, denunciation, abuse, criticism, censure, defamation, denigration, calumny, insults   n. disgrace, especially that brought about by public abuse. ""conduct to which no more obloquy could reasonably attach"" synonyms: disgrace, dishonor, shame, discredit, stigma, humiliation, loss of face, ignominy, odium, opprobrium, disfavor, disrepute, ill repute, infamy, stain, notoriety, scandal ""there is no moral obloquy connected with getting drunk there"""
indigent	"/ˈindəjənt/ adj. poor; needy. synonyms: poor, impecunious, destitute, penniless, impoverished, insolvent, poverty-stricken   adj. a needy person. synonyms: vagrant, homeless person, down-and-out, beggar, pauper, derelict, have-not ""a shelter for the city's indigents"""
feckless	"/fekləs/ adj. lacking initiative or strength of character; irresponsible. ""a feckless mama's boy"" synonyms: useless, worthless, incompetent, inept, good-for-nothing, ne'er-do-well"
downplay	"/ˈdounˌplā/ v. make (something) appear less important than it really is. ""this report downplays the seriousness of global warming"""
avid	"/ˈavəd/adj. having or showing a keen interest in or enthusiasm for something. ""an avid reader of science fiction"" synonyms: keen, eager, enthusiastic, ardent, passionate, devoted, dedicated, fervent, fervid, zealous, fanatical, voracious, insatiable   adj. having an eager desire for. ""she was avid for information about the murder inquiry"""
surmise	"/sərˈmīz/ v. suppose that something is true without having evidence to confirm it. ""he surmised that something must be wrong"" synonyms: guess, conjecture, suspect, deduce, infer, conclude, theorize, speculate, divine"
remiss	"/rəˈmis/ adj. lacking care or attention to duty; negligent. ""it would be very remiss of me not to pass on that information"" synonyms: negligent, neglectful, irresponsible, careless, thoughtless, heedless, lax, slack, slipshod, lackadaisical, derelict"
demise	"/dəˈmīz/ n. a person's death. ""Mr. Grisenthwaite's tragic demise"" synonyms: death, dying, passing, loss of life, end, quietus"
rehash	"/rēˈhaSH/ v. put (old ideas or material) into a new form without significant change or improvement. ""he contented himself with occasional articles in journals, rehashing his own work"""
fuss	"/fəs/ n. a display of unnecessary or excessive excitement, activity, or interest. ""I don't know what all the fuss is about"" synonyms: ado, excitement, agitation, pother, stir, commotion, confusion, disturbance, brouhaha, uproar, furor, palaver, foofaraw, tempest in a teapot, much ado about nothing   v. show unnecessary or excessive concern about something. ""she's always fussing about her food"" synonyms: worry about, fret about, be anxious about, be agitated about, make a big thing out of"
foolproof	"/ˈfo͞olˌpro͞of/ adj. incapable of going wrong or being misused. ""a foolproof security system"" synonyms: infallible, dependable, reliable, trustworthy, certain, sure, guaranteed, safe, sound, tried and tested"
profess	"/prəˈfes/ v. claim openly but often falsely that one has (a quality or feeling). ""he had professed his love for her"" synonyms: declare, announce, proclaim, assert, state, affirm, avow, maintain, protest   v. affirm one's faith in or allegiance to (a religion or set of beliefs). ""a people professing Christianity"" synonyms: affirm one's faith in, affirm one's allegiance to, avow, confess"
quandary	"/ˈkwänd(ə)rē/ n. a state of perplexity or uncertainty over what to do in a difficult situation. ""Kate is in a quandary"" synonyms: predicament, plight, difficult situation, awkward situation"
predicament	"/prəˈdikəmənt/ n. a difficult, unpleasant, or embarrassing situation. ""the club's financial predicament"" synonyms: difficult situation, mess, difficulty, plight, quandary, muddle, mare's nest"
ineffable	"/inˈefəb(ə)l/ adj. too great or extreme to be expressed or described in words. ""the ineffable natural beauty of the Everglades"" synonyms: indescribable, inexpressible, beyond words, beyond description, begging description"
fabulous	"/ˈfabyələs/ adj. extraordinary, especially extraordinarily large. ""fabulous riches"" synonyms: tremendous, stupendous, prodigious, phenomenal, remarkable, exceptional"
gauche	/ɡōSH/ adj. lacking ease or grace; unsophisticated and socially awkward. synonyms: awkward, gawky, inelegant, graceless, ungraceful, ungainly, maladroit, klutzy, inept
volant	"/ˈvōlənt/ adj. (of an animal) able to fly or glide. ""newly volant young""   adj. relating to or characterized by flight. ""volant ways of life"""
refractory	"/rəˈfrakt(ə)rē/ adj. stubborn or unmanageable. ""his refractory pony"" synonyms: obstinate, stubborn, mulish, pigheaded, obdurate, headstrong, self-willed, wayward, willful, perverse, contrary, recalcitrant, obstreperous, disobedient, difficult   adj. resistant to a process or stimulus. ""some granules are refractory to secretory stimuli"""
suffrage	"/ˈsəfrij/ n. the right to vote in political elections. synonyms: franchise, right to vote, the vote, enfranchisement, ballot ""suffrage for women is not yet a universal condition"""
salient	"/ˈsālyənt/ adj. most noticeable or important. ""it succinctly covered all the salient points of the case"" synonyms: important, main, principal, major, chief, primary"
restive	"/ˈrestiv/ adj. (of a person) unable to keep still or silent and becoming increasingly difficult to control, especially because of impatience, dissatisfaction, or boredom. ""the crowd had been waiting for hours and many were becoming restive"" synonyms: restless, fidgety, edgy, on edge, tense, uneasy, ill at ease, worked up, nervous, agitated, anxious, on tenterhooks, keyed up, apprehensive, unquiet, impatient"
relict	/ˈrelikt/ n. a thing that has survived from an earlier period or in a primitive form.
afflict	"/əˈflikt/ v. (of a problem or illness) cause pain or suffering to; affect or trouble. ""serious ills afflict the industry"" synonyms: trouble, burden, distress, cause suffering to, beset, harass, worry, oppress"
decry	"/dəˈkrī/ v. publicly denounce. ""they decried human rights abuses"" synonyms: denounce, condemn, criticize, censure, attack, rail against, run down, pillory, lambaste, vilify, revile"
laudatory	/ˈlôdəˌtôrē/ adj. (of speech or writing) expressing praise and commendation. synonyms: complimentary, praising, congratulatory, extolling, adulatory, commendatory, approbatory, flattering, celebratory, eulogizing, panegyrical
jettison	"/ˈjedəsən/ v. throw or drop (something) from an aircraft or ship. ""six aircraft jettisoned their loads in the sea"""
obsolescent	"/ˌäbsəˈles(ə)nt/  adj. becoming obsolete. ""the custom is now obsolescent"" synonyms: dying out, on the decline, declining, waning, on the wane, disappearing, past its prime, aging, moribund, on its last legs, old-fashioned, outmoded, downlevel, on the way out"
obsolete	"/äbsəˈlēt/ adj. no longer produced or used; out of date. ""the disposal of old and obsolete machinery"" synonyms: outdated, out of date, outmoded, old-fashioned, démodé, passé, out of fashion antonyms: cutting-edge, the latest, modern"
bumptious	"/ˈbəm(p)SHəs/ adj. self-assertive or proud to an irritating degree. ""these bumptious young boys today"" synonyms: self-important, conceited, arrogant, self-assertive, pushy, pompous, overbearing, cocky, swaggering"
herald	"/ˈherəld/ n. a person or thing viewed as a sign that something is about to happen. ""they considered the first primroses as the herald of spring"" synonyms: harbinger, sign, indicator, indication, signal, prelude, portent, omen   v. be a sign that (something) is about to happen. ""the speech heralded a change in policy"" synonyms: signal, indicate, announce, spell, presage, augur, portend, promise, foretell"
felicitous	"/fəˈlisədəs/ adj. well chosen or suited to the circumstances. ""a felicitous phrase"" synonyms: apt, well chosen, fitting, suitable, appropriate, apposite, pertinent, germane, relevant ""his nickname was particularly felicitous""   adj. pleasing and fortunate. ""the view was the room's only felicitous feature"" synonyms: favorable, advantageous, good, pleasing ""the room's only felicitous feature"""
apropos	"/ˌaprəˈpō/ prep. with reference to; concerning. ""she remarked apropos of the initiative, “It's not going to stop the abuse.”"" synonyms: with reference to, with regard to, with respect to, regarding, concerning, on the subject of, connected with, about ""he was asked a question apropos his resignation""   adj. very appropriate to a particular situation. ""the composer's reference to child's play is apropos"" synonyms: appropriate, pertinent, relevant, apposite, apt, applicable, suitable, germane, fitting, befitting, material; right on ""the word “conglomerate” was decidedly apropos"""
omnipotent	/ˌämˈnipəd(ə)nt/ adj. (of a deity) having unlimited power; able to do anything. synonyms: all-powerful, almighty, supreme, preeminent, most high
omnipresence	"/ˌämnəˈprez(ə)ns/ n. the state of being widespread or constantly encountered. ""the omnipresence of the Internet in society today"""
doleful	"/ˈdōlfəl/ adj. expressing sorrow; mournful. ""a doleful look"" synonyms: mournful, woeful, sorrowful, sad, unhappy, depressed, gloomy, morose, melancholy, miserable, forlorn, wretched, woebegone, despondent, dejected, disconsolate, downcast, crestfallen, downhearted"
flamboyant	"/ˌflamˈboi(y)ənt/ adj. (of a person or their behavior) tending to attract attention because of their exuberance, confidence, and stylishness. ""a flamboyant display of aerobatics"" synonyms: exuberant, confident, lively, animated, vibrant, vivacious ""her flamboyant personality"""
exacting	"/iɡˈzaktiNG/ adj. making great demands on one's skill, attention, or other resources. ""living up to such exacting standards"" synonyms: demanding, stringent, testing, challenging, onerous, arduous, laborious, taxing, grueling, punishing, hard, tough"
semblance	"/ˈsembləns/ n. the outward appearance or apparent form of something, especially when the reality is different. ""she tried to force her thoughts back into some semblance of order"" synonyms: (outward) appearance, air, show, facade, front, veneer, guise, pretense ""there remained at least a semblance of discipline"""
dichotomy	"/dīˈkädəmē/ n. a division or contrast between two things that are or are represented as being opposed or entirely different. ""a rigid dichotomy between science and mysticism"" synonyms: contrast, difference, polarity, conflict"
inculpate	/inˈkəlpāt/ v. accuse or blame.
superintend	"/ˌso͞op(ə)r(ə)nˈtend/ v. be responsible for the management or arrangement of (an activity or organization); oversee. ""he superintended a land reclamation program"" synonyms: supervise, oversee, be in charge of, be in control of, preside over, direct, administer, manage, run, be responsible for ""he was expected to superintend a grand banquet"""
consolidate	"/kənˈsäləˌdāt/ v. make (something) physically stronger or more solid. ""the first phase of the project is to consolidate the outside walls""   v. combine (a number of things) into a single more effective or coherent whole. ""all manufacturing activities have been consolidated in new premises"" synonyms: combine, unite, merge, integrate, amalgamate, fuse, synthesize, bring together, unify ""consolidate the results into an action plan"""
circumvent	"/ˌsərkəmˈvent/ v. find a way around (an obstacle). synonyms: avoid, get around, get past, evade, bypass, sidestep, dodge ""the checkpoints were easy to circumvent""   v. overcome (a problem or difficulty), typically in a clever and surreptitious way. ""I found it quite easy to circumvent security"""
contravene	"/ˌkäntrəˈvēn/ v. violate the prohibition or order of (a law, treaty, or code of conduct). ""this would contravene the rule against hearsay"" synonyms: break, breach, violate, infringe"
capitulate	"/kəˈpiCHəˌlāt/ v. cease to resist an opponent or an unwelcome demand; surrender. ""the patriots had to capitulate to the enemy forces"" synonyms: surrender, give in/up, yield, concede defeat, give up the struggle, submit, knuckle under"
canny	"/ˈkanē/  adj. having or showing shrewdness and good judgment, especially in money or business matters. ""canny shoppers came early for a bargain"" synonyms: shrewd, astute, smart, sharp, sharp-witted, discerning, penetrating, discriminating, perceptive, perspicacious, wise, worldly-wise, sagacious"
braggart	"/ˈbraɡərt/ n. a person who boasts about achievements or possessions. ""braggart men"" synonyms: boaster, bragger, swaggerer, egotist"
baffle	"/ˈbafəl/ v. totally bewilder or perplex. ""an unexplained occurrence that baffled everyone"" synonyms: perplex, puzzle, bewilder, mystify, bemuse, confuse, confound, nonplus, disconcert, throw, set someone thinking   v. restrain or regulate (a fluid, sound, etc.). ""to baffle the noise further, I pad the gunwales"" synonyms: thwart, frustrate, foil, balk, check, block, hinder, obstruct, bar, prevent, deflect, divert ""her intention was to baffle their plans"""
secede	"/səˈsēd/ v. withdraw formally from membership in a federal union, an alliance, or a political or religious organization. ""the kingdom of Belgium seceded from the Netherlands in 1830"" synonyms: withdraw from, break away from, break with, separate (oneself) from, leave, split with, split off from, disaffiliate from, resign from, pull out of ""the southern states seceded from the Union, precipitating the Civil War"""
intercede	"/ˌin(t)ərˈsēd/  v. intervene on behalf of another. ""I begged him to intercede for Theresa, but he never did a thing"" synonyms: mediate, act as an intermediary, intermediate, negotiate, arbitrate, moderate, conciliate, act as honest broker, intervene, interpose, step in, become/get involved, act, take action, take measures, take a hand"
circuitous	"/sərˈkyo͞oədəs/ adj. (of a route or journey) longer than the most direct way. ""the canal followed a circuitous route"" synonyms: roundabout, indirect, winding, meandering, serpentine, tortuous"
assiduous	"/əˈsijo͞oəs/ adj. showing great care and perseverance. ""she was assiduous in pointing out every feature"" synonyms: diligent, careful, meticulous, thorough, sedulous, attentive, conscientious, punctilious, painstaking, rigorous, particular; persevering"
arresting	"/əˈrestiNG/ adj. striking; eye-catching. ""at 6 feet 6 inches he was an arresting figure"" synonyms: striking, eye-catching, impactful, conspicuous, engaging, engrossing, fascinating, impressive, imposing, spectacular, dramatic, breathtaking, dazzling, stunning, awe-inspiring"
transgression	"/transˈɡreSHən/ n. an act that goes against a law, rule, or code of conduct; an offense. ""I'll be keeping an eye out for further transgressions"" synonyms: offense, crime, sin, wrong, wrongdoing, misdemeanor, impropriety, infraction, misdeed, lawbreaking"
extenuate	"/ikˈstenyəˌwāt/ v. make (guilt or an offense) seem less serious or more forgivable. ""there were extenuating circumstances that caused me to say the things I did"" synonyms: excuse, mitigate, palliate, make allowances for, make excuses for, defend, vindicate, justify"
intemperance	"/inˈtemp(ə)rəns/ n. lack of moderation or restraint. ""his occasional intemperance of tone"""
temperance	"/ˈtemp(ə)rəns/ n. abstinence from alcoholic drink. ""the temperance movement"" synonyms: teetotalism, abstinence, abstention, sobriety, self-restraint; prohibition ""a strict advocate of temperance"""
extant	"/ˈekstənt/ adj. (especially of a document) still in existence; surviving. ""the original manuscript is no longer extant"" synonyms: still existing, in existence, existent, surviving, remaining, undestroyed ""extant manuscripts"""
desolate	"/ˈdesəˌlāt/ adj. (of a place) deserted of people and in a state of bleak and dismal emptiness. ""a desolate moor"" synonyms: bleak, stark, bare, dismal, grim   v. make (a place) bleakly and depressingly empty or bare. ""the droughts that desolated the dry plains"" synonyms: devastate, ravage, ruin, lay waste to"
sacrosanct	"/ˈsakrōˌsaNG(k)t/ adj. (especially of a principle, place, or routine) regarded as too important or valuable to be interfered with. ""the individual's right to work has been upheld as sacrosanct"" synonyms: sacred, hallowed, respected, inviolable, inviolate, unimpeachable, invulnerable, untouchable, inalienable"
expunge	"/ikˈspənj/ v. erase or remove completely (something unwanted or unpleasant). ""I’ve kind of expunged that period from my CV"" synonyms: erase, remove, delete, rub out, wipe out, efface"
compunction	"/kəmˈpəNG(k)SH(ə)n/ n. a feeling of guilt or moral scruple that prevents or follows the doing of something bad. ""spend the money without compunction"" synonyms: scruples, misgivings, qualms, worries, unease, uneasiness, doubts, reluctance, reservations"
punctilious	"/ˌpəNG(k)ˈtilēəs/ adj. showing great attention to detail or correct behavior. ""he was punctilious in providing every amenity for his guests"" synonyms: meticulous, conscientious, diligent, scrupulous, careful, painstaking, rigorous, perfectionist, methodical, particular, strict"
plaudits	"/ˈplôdəts/ n. praise. ""the network has received plaudits for its sports coverage"" synonyms: praise, acclaim, commendation, congratulations, accolades, compliments, cheers, applause, tributes, bouquets"
mawkish	"/ˈmôkiSH/ adj. sentimental in a feeble or sickly way. ""a mawkish poem"" synonyms: sentimental, oversentimental, maudlin, cloying, sickly, saccharine, sugary, oversweet, syrupy, nauseating"
emancipate	"/əˈmansəˌpāt/ v. set free, especially from legal, social, or political restrictions. ""the citizen must be emancipated from the obsessive secrecy of government"" synonyms: liberated, independent, unconstrained, uninhibited; free ""emancipated women"""
protract	"/prəˈtrakt/ v. prolong. ""he had certainly taken his time, even protracting the process"" synonyms: prolong, lengthen, extend, draw out, drag out, spin out, stretch out, string out, elongate"
pejorative	"/pəˈjôrədiv/ adj. expressing contempt or disapproval. """"permissiveness"" is used almost universally as a pejorative term"" synonyms: disparaging, derogatory, denigratory, deprecatory, defamatory, slanderous, libelous, abusive, insulting, slighting ""his remarks were considered too pejorative for daytime radio"""
posthumous	"/ˈpäsCHəməs/ adj. occurring, awarded, or appearing after the death of the originator. ""he was awarded a posthumous Military Cross"""
exhume	"/iɡˈz(y)o͞om/ v. dig out (something buried, especially a corpse) from the ground. synonyms: disinter, dig up, unearth ""the district attorney is requesting that the body be exhumed"""
ingratiate	"/inˈɡrāSHēˌāt/ v. bring oneself into favor with someone by flattering or trying to please them. ""a social climber who had tried to ingratiate herself with the city gentry"" synonyms: curry favor with, find the favor of, cultivate, win over, get on the good side of, get in someone's good books"
fickle	"/ˈfik(ə)l/  adj. changing frequently, especially as regards one's loyalties, interests, or affection. ""Web patrons are a notoriously fickle lot, bouncing from one site to another on a whim"" synonyms: capricious, changeable, variable, volatile, mercurial"
interminable	"/inˈtərmənəb(ə)l/adj. endless (often used hyperbolically). ""we got bogged down in interminable discussions"" synonyms: (seemingly) endless, never-ending, unending, nonstop, everlasting, ceaseless, unceasing, incessant, constant, continual, uninterrupted, sustained"
ebb	"/eb/ n. the movement of the tide out to sea. ""I knew the tide would be on the ebb"" synonyms: receding, retreat, subsiding ""the ebb of the tide""   v. (of tidewater) move away from the land; recede. ""the tide began to ebb"" synonyms: recede, go out, retreat, flow back, fall back/away, subside ""the tide ebbed""   v. (of an emotion or quality) gradually lessen or reduce. ""my enthusiasm was ebbing away"" synonyms: diminish, dwindle, wane, fade away, peter out, decline, flag, let up, decrease, weaken, disappear"
disingenuous	"/ˌdisənˈjenyo͞oəs/ adj. not candid or sincere, typically by pretending that one knows less about something than one really does. synonyms: insincere, dishonest, untruthful, false, deceitful, duplicitous, lying, mendacious; hypocritical ""that innocent, teary-eyed look is just part of a disingenuous act"""
complacency	"/kəmˈplāsənsē/ n. a feeling of smug or uncritical satisfaction with oneself or one's achievements. ""the figures are better, but there are no grounds for complacency"" synonyms: smugness, self-satisfaction, self-congratulation, self-regard"
blemish	"/ˈblemiSH/ v. spoil the appearance of (something) that is otherwise aesthetically perfect. ""thousands of Web pages are blemished with embarrassing typos"" synonyms: mar, spoil, impair, disfigure, blight, deface, mark, scar"
bemoan	"/bəˈmōn/ v. express discontent or sorrow over (something). ""single women bemoaning the absence of men"" synonyms: lament, bewail, mourn, grieve over, sorrow over, regret, cry over"
backfire	"/ˈbakˌfī(ə)r/ v. (of an engine) undergo a mistimed explosion in the cylinder or exhaust. ""a car backfired in the road"" synonyms: rebound, boomerang, come back   v. (of a plan or action) rebound adversely on the originator; have the opposite effect to what was intended. ""overzealous publicity backfired on her"" synonyms: rebound, boomerang, come back"
vapid	"/ˈvapəd/ adj. offering nothing that is stimulating or challenging. synonyms: insipid, uninspired, colorless, uninteresting, feeble, flat, dull, boring, tedious, tired, unexciting, uninspiring, unimaginative, uninvolving, lifeless, tame, vacuous, bland, trite, jejune ""a tuneful but vapid musical comedy"""
sparing	"/ˈsperiNG/ adj. moderate; economical. ""physicians advised sparing use of the ointment"" synonyms: thrifty, economical, frugal, canny, careful, prudent, cautious"
condescend	"/ˌkändəˈsend/ v. show feelings of superiority; be patronizing. ""take care not to condescend to your reader"" synonyms: patronize, talk down to, look down one's nose at, look down on, put down ""don't condescend to your readers"""
compulsory	"/kəmˈpəlsərē/ adj. required by law or a rule; obligatory. ""compulsory military service"" synonyms: obligatory, mandatory, required, requisite, necessary, essential   adj. involving or exercising compulsion; coercive. ""the abuse of compulsory powers"""
repel	"/rəˈpel/ v. drive or force (an attack or attacker) back or away. ""government units sought to repel the rebels"" synonyms: fight off, repulse, drive back/away, force back, beat back, push back   v. be repulsive or distasteful to. ""she was repelled by the permanent smell of drink on his breath"" synonyms: revolt, disgust, repulse, sicken, nauseate, turn someone's stomach, be repulsive, be distasteful, be repugnant"
dispel	"/dəˈspel/ v. make (a doubt, feeling, or belief) disappear. ""the brightness of the day did nothing to dispel Elaine's dejection"" synonyms: banish, eliminate, drive away/off, get rid of"
complexion	"/kəmˈplekSHən/ n. the natural color, texture, and appearance of a person's skin, especially of the face. ""an attractive girl with a pale complexion"" synonyms: skin, skin color, skin tone; pigmentation ""a pale complexion""   n. the general aspect or character of something. ""Congress's new complexion became boldly apparent last summer"" synonyms: perspective, angle, slant, interpretation"
beguile	"/bəˈɡīl/ v. charm or enchant (someone), sometimes in a deceptive way. ""every prominent American artist has been beguiled by Maine"" synonyms: charm, attract, enchant, entrance, win over, woo, captivate, bewitch, spellbind, dazzle, hypnotize, mesmerize, seduce ""she was beguiled by his beauty"""
aversion	"/əˈvərZHən/ n. a strong dislike or disinclination. ""he had a deep-seated aversion to most forms of exercise"" synonyms: dislike of, antipathy for, distaste for, abhorrence of, hatred of, odium of, loathing of, detestation of, hostility toward"
avert	"/əˈvərt/ v. turn away (one's eyes or thoughts). ""she averted her eyes during the more violent scenes"" synonyms: turn aside, turn away ""she averted her head""   v. prevent or ward off (an undesirable occurrence). ""talks failed to avert a rail strike"" synonyms: prevent, avoid, stave off, ward off, forestall, preclude ""an attempt to avert political chaos"""
averse	"/əˈvərs/ adj. having a strong dislike of or opposition to something. ""as a former CIA director, he is not averse to secrecy"" synonyms: opposed to, against, antipathetic to, hostile to, ill-disposed to, resistant to antonyms: keen"
incantation	"/ˌinkanˈtāSH(ə)n/ n. a series of words said as a magic spell or charm. ""an incantation to raise the dead"" synonyms: chant, invocation, conjuration, magic spell/formula, charm, hex, enchantment, mojo"
vitriolic	"/ˌvitrēˈälik/ adj. filled with bitter criticism or malice. ""vitriolic attacks on the politicians"" synonyms: acrimonious, rancorous, bitter, caustic, mordant, acerbic, trenchant, virulent, spiteful, savage, venomous, poisonous, malicious, splenetic"
virile	/ˈvirəl/ adj. (of a man) having strength, energy, and a strong sex drive. synonyms: manly, masculine, male
virtuoso	"/ˌvərCHəˈwōsō/ n. a person highly skilled in music or another artistic pursuit. ""a celebrated clarinet virtuoso"" synonyms: genius, expert, master, past master, maestro, artist, prodigy, marvel, adept, professional, doyen, veteran"
surly	"/ˈsərlē/ adj. bad-tempered and unfriendly. ""he left with a surly expression"" synonyms: sullen, sulky, moody, sour, unfriendly, unpleasant, scowling, unsmiling"
subvert	"/səbˈvərt/ v. undermine the power and authority of (an established system or institution). ""an attempt to subvert democratic government"" synonyms: destabilize, unsettle, overthrow, overturn"
sonorous	"/ˈsänərəs/ adj. capable of producing a deep or ringing sound. ""the alloy is sonorous and useful in making bells"" synonyms: resonant, rich, full, round, booming, deep, clear, mellow, orotund, fruity, strong, resounding, reverberant ""a sonorous voice""   adj. (of a speech or style) using imposing language. ""they had expected the lawyers to deliver sonorous lamentations"" synonyms: impressive, imposing, grandiloquent, magniloquent, high-flown, lofty, orotund, bombastic, grandiose, pompous, pretentious, overblown, turgid"
accomplice	/əˈkämpləs/ n. a person who helps another commit a crime. synonyms: partner in crime, associate, accessory, abettor, confederate, collaborator, fellow conspirator, co-conspirator
fugitive	"/ˈfyo͞ojədiv/ n. a person who has escaped from a place or is in hiding, especially to avoid arrest or persecution. ""fugitives from justice"" synonyms: escapee, runaway, deserter, absconder; refugee ""a hunted fugitive"""
persevere	"/ˌpərsəˈvir/ v. continue in a course of action even in the face of difficulty or with little or no prospect of success. ""his family persevered with his treatment"" synonyms: persist, continue, carry on, go on, keep on, keep going, struggle on, hammer away, be persistent, be determined, see/follow something through, keep at it, press on/ahead, not take no for an answer, be tenacious, stand one's ground, stand fast/firm, hold on, go the distance, stay the course, plod on, stop at nothing, leave no stone unturned"
nonchalant	"/ˌnänSHəˈlänt/ adj. (of a person or manner) feeling or appearing casually calm and relaxed; not displaying anxiety, interest, or enthusiasm. ""she gave a nonchalant shrug"" synonyms: calm, composed, unconcerned, cool, ‘calm, cool, and collected’, cool as a cucumber"
mettlesome	"/ˈmedlsəm/ adj. (of a person or animal) full of spirit and courage. ""their horses were beasts of burden, not mettlesome chargers"""
marginalize	"/ˈmärjənəˌlīz/ v. treat (a person, group, or concept) as insignificant or peripheral. ""attempting to marginalize those who disagree"" synonyms: sideline, trivialize"
juxtapose	"/ˈjəkstəˌpōz/ v. place or deal with close together for contrasting effect. ""black-and-white photos of slums were starkly juxtaposed with color images"" synonyms: place side by side, set side by side, collocate, mix"
extricate	"/ˈekstrəˌkāt/ v. free (someone or something) from a constraint or difficulty. ""he was trying to extricate himself from official duties"" synonyms: extract, free, release, disentangle, get out, remove, withdraw, disengage ""there's always someone who can extricate these wealthy little brats from their run-ins with the law"""
hortatory	"/ˈhôrdəˌtôrē/ adj. tending or aiming to exhort. ""the central bank relied on hortatory messages and voluntary compliance"""
infatuate	"/inˈfaCHəˌwāt/ v. be inspired with an intense but short-lived passion or admiration for. ""she is infatuated with a handsome police chief"" synonyms: besotted with, in love with, head over heels about, obsessed with, taken with, lovesick for, moonstruck over"
facilitate	"/fəˈsiləˌtāt/ v. make (an action or process) easy or easier. ""schools were located on the same campus to facilitate the sharing of resources"" synonyms: make easy/easier, ease, make possible, make smooth/smoother, smooth the way for"
retrench	"/rəˈtren(t)SH/ v. (of a company, government, or individual) reduce costs or spending in response to economic difficulty. ""as a result of the recession the company retrenched"" synonyms: economize, cut back, make cutbacks, make savings, make economies, reduce expenditure, be economical, be frugal, tighten one's belt ""we have to retrench"""
entrench	"/inˈtren(t)SH/ v. establish (an attitude, habit, or belief) so firmly that change is very difficult or unlikely. ""ageism is entrenched in our society"" synonyms: establish, settle, lodge, set, root, install, plant, embed, seat"
emulate	"/ ˈemyəˌlāt/  v. match or surpass (a person or achievement), typically by imitation. ""lesser men trying to emulate his greatness"" synonyms: imitate, copy, mirror, echo, follow, model oneself on"
egalitarian	"/iˌɡaləˈterēən/ adj. relating to or believing in the principle that all people are equal and deserve equal rights and opportunities. ""a fairer, more egalitarian society""   n. a person who advocates or supports egalitarian principles."
devious	"/ˈdēvēəs/ adj. showing a skillful use of underhanded tactics to achieve goals. ""he's as devious as a politician needs to be"" synonyms: underhanded, deceitful, dishonest, dishonorable, unethical, unprincipled, immoral, unscrupulous, fraudulent, dubious, unfair, treacherous, duplicitous   adj. (of a route or journey) longer and less direct than the most straightforward way. ""they arrived at the town by a devious route"" synonyms: circuitous, roundabout, indirect, meandering, winding, tortuous ""a devious route around the coast"""
demarcate	"/dēˈmärˌkāt/ v. set the boundaries or limits of. ""plots of land demarcated by barbed wire""   v. separate or distinguish from. ""art was being demarcated from the more objective science"" synonyms: separate, divide, mark (out/off), delimit, delineate; bound ""the building lots were demarcated with stakes and orange tape"""
delude	"/dəˈlo͞od/ v. impose a misleading belief upon (someone); deceive; fool. ""too many theorists have deluded the public"" synonyms: mislead, deceive, fool, take in, trick, dupe, hoodwink, gull, lead on"
deference	"/ˈdef(ə)rəns/ n. humble submission and respect. ""he addressed her with the deference due to age"" synonyms: respect, respectfulness, dutifulness"
counterfeit	"/ˈkoun(t)ərˌfit/adj. made in exact imitation of something valuable or important with the intention to deceive or defraud. ""two men were remanded on bail on a charge of passing counterfeit $10 bills"" synonyms: fake, faked, bogus, forged, imitation, spurious, substitute, ersatz, phony   v. imitate fraudulently. ""my signature is extremely hard to counterfeit"" synonyms: fake, forge, copy, reproduce, imitate"
despicable	"/dəˈspikəb(ə)l/ adj. deserving hatred and contempt. ""a despicable crime"" synonyms: contemptible, loathsome, hateful, detestable, reprehensible, abhorrent, abominable, awful, heinous"
contemptuous	"/kənˈtempCHo͞oəs/ adj. showing contempt; scornful. ""she was intolerant and contemptuous of the majority of the human race"" synonyms: scornful, disdainful, disrespectful, insulting, insolent, derisive, mocking, sneering, scoffing, withering, scathing, snide"
bemuse	"/bəˈmyo͞oz/ v. puzzle, confuse, or bewilder (someone). ""her bemused expression"" synonyms: bewildered, confused, puzzled, perplexed, baffled, mystified, nonplussed, muddled, befuddled, dumbfounded, at sea, at a loss, taken aback, disoriented, disconcerted"
befuddle	"/bəˈfədl/ v. make (someone) unable to think clearly. ""he has an air of befuddled unworldliness"" synonyms: confused, muddled, addled, bewildered, disoriented, fazed, perplexed, dazed, dizzy, stupefied, groggy, muzzy, foggy, fuddled, fuzzy, dopey, woozy, befogged, mixed up ""befuddled from the anesthesia"""
detest	"/dəˈtest/ v. dislike intensely. ""of all birds the carrion crow is the most detested by gamekeepers"" synonyms: abhor, hate, loathe, despise, shrink from, be unable to bear, find intolerable, dislike, disdain, have an aversion to ""the only vegetable I truly detest is turnip"""
condone	"/kənˈdōn/ v. accept and allow (behavior that is considered morally wrong or offensive) to continue. ""the college cannot condone any behavior that involves illicit drugs"" synonyms: disregard, accept, allow, let pass, turn a blind eye to, overlook, forget   v. approve or sanction (something), especially with reluctance. ""the practice is not officially condoned by any airline"""
callous	"/ˈkaləs/ adj. showing or having an insensitive and cruel disregard for others. ""his callous comments about the murder made me shiver"" synonyms: heartless, unfeeling, uncaring, cold, cold-hearted, hard, as hard as nails, hard-hearted, insensitive, lacking compassion, hard-bitten, hard-nosed, hard-edged, unsympathetic ""his callous disregard for other people's feelings"""
aloof	"/əˈlo͞of/ adj. not friendly or forthcoming; cool and distant. ""they were courteous but faintly aloof"" synonyms: distant, detached, unfriendly, antisocial, unsociable, avoidant, remote, unapproachable, formal, stiff, withdrawn, reserved, unforthcoming, uncommunicative, unsympathetic ""part of their strategy is to remain aloof during the first stages of negotiation"""
acclaim	"/əˈklām/ v. praise enthusiastically and publicly. ""the conference was acclaimed as a considerable success"" synonyms: praise, applaud, cheer, commend, approve, welcome, pay tribute to, speak highly of, eulogize, compliment, celebrate, sing the praises of, rave about, heap praise on/upon, wax lyrical about, lionize, exalt, admire, hail, extol, honor, hymn"
reclaim	"/rəˈklām/ v. retrieve or recover (something previously lost, given, or paid); obtain the return of. ""he returned three years later to reclaim his title as director of advertising"" synonyms: get back, recoup, claim back, recover, regain, retrieve ""traveling expenses can be reclaimed""   v. bring (waste land or land formerly under water) under cultivation. ""little money is available to reclaim and cultivate the desert"""
pertinacious	"/ˌpərtnˈāSHəs/ adj. holding firmly to an opinion or a course of action. ""he worked with a pertinacious resistance to interruptions"" synonyms: determined, tenacious, persistent, persevering, purposeful, resolute, dogged, indefatigable, insistent, single-minded, unrelenting, relentless, tireless, unshakable"
bridle	"/ˈbrīdl/ v. show one's resentment or anger, especially by throwing up the head and drawing in the chin. ""ranchers have bridled at excessive federal control"" synonyms: bristle, take offense, take umbrage, be affronted, be offended, get angry ""William seemed to bridle at the brusque manner of questioning"""
prod	"/präd/ v. poke (someone) with a finger, foot, or pointed object. ""he prodded her in the ribs to stop her snoring"" synonyms: poke, jab, dig, elbow, butt, stab ""Cassie prodded him in the chest"""
goad	"/ɡōd/ v. provoke or annoy (someone) so as to stimulate some action or reaction. ""he goaded her on to more daring revelations"" synonyms: provoke, spur, prod, egg on, hound, badger, incite, rouse, stir, move, stimulate, motivate, prompt, induce, encourage, urge, inspire"
rapture	"/ˈrapCHər/ n. a feeling of intense pleasure or joy. ""Leonora listened with rapture"" synonyms: ecstasy, bliss, exaltation, euphoria, elation, joy, enchantment, delight, happiness, pleasure ""she gazed at him in rapture"""
rapt	"/rapt/ adj. completely fascinated by what one is seeing or hearing. ""Andrew looked at her, rapt"" synonyms: fascinated, enthralled, spellbound, captivated, riveted, gripped, mesmerized, enchanted, entranced, bewitched, moonstruck"
rapacious	"/rəˈpāSHəs/ adj. aggressively greedy or grasping. ""rapacious landlords"" synonyms: grasping, greedy, avaricious, acquisitive, covetous"
promulgate	"/ˈpräməlˌɡāt/ v. promote or make widely known (an idea or cause). ""these objectives have to be promulgated within the organization"" synonyms: make known, make public, publicize, spread, communicate, propagate, disseminate, broadcast, promote, preach ""they promulgated their own views""   v. put (a law or decree) into effect by official proclamation. ""in January 1852, the new constitution was promulgated"" synonyms: put into effect, enact, implement, enforce ""the law was promulgated in 1942"""
precocious	"/prəˈkōSHəs/ adj. (of a child) having developed certain abilities or proclivities at an earlier age than usual. ""he was a precocious, solitary boy"" synonyms: advanced for one's age, forward, mature, gifted, talented, clever, intelligent, quick ""some of the boys were extremely precocious"""
peregrination	"/ˌperəɡrəˈnāSH(ə)n/ n. a journey, especially a long or meandering one. ""she kept Aunt Ilsa company on her peregrinations"" synonyms: travels, wanderings, journeys, globe-trotting, voyages, expeditions, odysseys, trips, treks, excursions ""such fascinating peregrinations you've experienced, Mr. Soo"""
panache	"/pəˈnaSH/ n. flamboyant confidence of style or manner. ""he entertained Palm Springs society with great panache"" synonyms: flamboyance, confidence, self-assurance, style, flair, elan, dash, verve, zest, spirit, brio, éclat, vivacity, gusto, liveliness, vitality, energy"
paltry	"/ˈpôltrē/ adj. (of an amount) small or meager. ""she would earn a paltry $33 more each month"" synonyms: small, meager, trifling, insignificant, negligible, inadequate, insufficient, derisory, pitiful, pathetic, miserable, niggardly, beggarly   adj. petty; trivial. ""naval glory struck him as paltry"" synonyms: worthless, petty, trivial, unimportant, insignificant, inconsequential, of little account"
ligament	/ˈliɡəmənt/ n. a short band of tough, flexible, fibrous connective tissue that connects two bones or cartilages or holds together a joint.
mendacious	"/menˈdāSHəs/ adj. not telling the truth; lying. ""mendacious propaganda"" synonyms: lying, untruthful, dishonest, deceitful, false, dissembling, insincere, disingenuous, hypocritical, fraudulent, double-dealing, two-faced, Janus-faced, two-timing, duplicitous, perjured"
libertine	"/ˈlibərˌtēn/ n. a person, especially a man, who behaves without moral principles or a sense of responsibility, especially in sexual matters. synonyms: philanderer, playboy, rake, roué, Don Juan, Lothario, Casanova, Romeo   adj. characterized by a disregard of morality, especially in sexual matters. ""his more libertine impulses"""
implausible	"/imˈplôzəb(ə)l/ adj. (of an argument or statement) not seeming reasonable or probable; failing to convince. ""this is a blatantly implausible claim"" synonyms: unlikely, improbable, questionable, doubtful, debatable"
preeminent	"/prēˈemənənt/ adj. surpassing all others; very distinguished in some way. ""the world's preeminent expert on asbestos"" synonyms: greatest, leading, foremost, best, finest, chief, outstanding, excellent, distinguished, prominent, eminent, important, top, famous, renowned, celebrated, illustrious, supreme, marquee ""America's preeminent economist"""
hapless	"/ˈhapləs/ adj. (especially of a person) unfortunate. ""if you're one of the many hapless car buyers who've been shafted"" synonyms: unfortunate, unlucky, luckless, out of luck, ill-starred, ill-fated, jinxed, cursed, doomed"
haphazard	"/ˌhapˈhazərd/ adj. lacking any obvious principle of organization. ""the kitchen drawers contained a haphazard collection of silver souvenir spoons"" synonyms: random, unplanned, unsystematic, unmethodical, disorganized, disorderly, irregular, indiscriminate, chaotic, hit-and-miss, arbitrary, aimless, careless, casual, slapdash, slipshod"
seminal	"/ˈsemənl/ adj. (of a work, event, moment, or figure) strongly influencing later developments. ""his seminal work on chaos theory"" synonyms: influential, formative, groundbreaking, pioneering, original, innovative   adj. relating to or denoting semen."
imprecate	/ˈimprəˌkāt/ v. utter (a curse) or invoke (evil) against someone or something.
debase	"/dəˈbās/ v. reduce (something) in quality or value; degrade. ""the love episodes debase the dignity of the drama"" synonyms: degrade, devalue, demean, cheapen, prostitute, discredit, drag down, tarnish, blacken, blemish"
self-effacing	"/ˈˌself əˈfāsiNG/ adj. not claiming attention for oneself; retiring and modest. ""his demeanor was self-effacing, gracious, and polite"""
sedentary	/ˈsednˌterē/ adj. (of a person) tending to spend much time seated; somewhat inactive. synonyms: sitting, seated, desk-bound, stationary
unscathed	"/ˌənˈskāT͟Hd/ adj. without suffering any injury, damage, or harm. ""I came through all those perils unscathed"" synonyms: unharmed, unhurt, uninjured, undamaged, in one piece, intact, safe (and sound), unmarked, untouched, without a scratch ""remarkably, the passengers were unscathed"""
scathing	"/ˈskāT͟HiNG/ adj. witheringly scornful; severely critical. ""she launched a scathing attack on the governor"" synonyms: devastating, extremely critical, blistering, searing, withering, scorching, fierce, ferocious, savage, severe, stinging, biting, cutting, mordant, trenchant, virulent, caustic, vitriolic, scornful, sharp, bitter, harsh, unsparing ""another restaurant has fallen victim to one of her scathing reviews"""
retrogression	"/ˌretrəˈɡreSHən/ n. the process of returning to an earlier state, typically a worse one. ""a kind of extreme retrogression to 19th-century attitudes"""
retrospect	/ˈretrəˌspekt/ n. a survey or review of a past course of events or period of time.
reproof	"/rəˈpro͞of/ n. an expression of blame or disapproval.  ""she welcomed him with a mild reproof for leaving her alone"" synonyms: rebuke, reprimand, reproach, admonishment, admonition"
recede	"/rəˈsēd/ v. go or move back or further away from a previous position. ""the flood waters had receded"" synonyms: retreat, go back, go down, move back, move away, withdraw, ebb, subside, abate   v. (of a quality, feeling, or possibility) gradually diminish. ""the prospects of an early end to the war receded"" synonyms: diminish, lessen, decrease, dwindle, fade, abate, subside, ebb, wane ""fears of violence have receded"""
penitent	"/ˈpenətnt/ adj. feeling or showing sorrow and regret for having done wrong; repentant. ""a penitent expression"" synonyms: repentant, contrite, remorseful, sorry, apologetic, regretful, conscience-stricken, rueful, ashamed, shamefaced, abject, in sackcloth and ashes ""she stood there looking like a penitent child"""
indigenous	"/inˈdijənəs/ adj. originating or occurring naturally in a particular place; native. ""the indigenous peoples of Siberia"" synonyms: native, original, aboriginal, autochthonous"
fathom	"/ˈfaT͟Həm/ n. a unit of length equal to six feet (approximately 1.8 m), chiefly used in reference to the depth of water. ""sonar says that we're in eighteen fathoms""   v. understand (a difficult problem or an enigmatic person) after much thought. ""he could scarcely fathom the idea that people actually lived in Las Vegas"" synonyms: understand, comprehend, work out, make sense of, grasp, divine, puzzle out, get to the bottom of   v. measure the depth of (water). ""an attempt to fathom the ocean"" synonyms: measure the depth of, sound, plumb ""fathoming the ocean"""
exemplary	"/iɡˈzemplərē/ adj. serving as a desirable model; representing the best of its kind. ""an award for exemplary community service"" synonyms: perfect, ideal, model, faultless, flawless, impeccable, irreproachable   adj. (of a punishment) serving as a warning or deterrent. ""exemplary sentencing may discourage the ultraviolent minority"" synonyms: deterrent, cautionary, warning, admonitory ""exemplary jail sentences"""
enshrine	"/inˈSHrīn/ v. preserve (a right, tradition, or idea) in a form that ensures it will be protected and respected. ""the right of all workers to strike was enshrined in the new constitution"" synonyms: preserve, entrench, set down, lay down, set in stone, embody, incorporate, contain, include, treasure, immortalize, cherish ""the following rights should be enshrined in the treaty"""
engender	"/ənˈjendər/ v. cause or give rise to (a feeling, situation, or condition). ""the issue engendered continuing controversy"" synonyms: cause, be the cause of, give rise to, bring about, occasion, lead to, result in, produce, create, generate, arouse, rouse, inspire, provoke, prompt, kindle, trigger, spark, stir up, whip up, induce, incite, instigate, foment"
affront	"/əˈfrənt/  n. an action or remark that causes outrage or offense. ""he took his son's desertion as a personal affront"" synonyms: insult, offense, indignity, slight, snub, put-down, provocation, injury   v. offend the modesty or values of. ""she was affronted by his familiarity"" synonyms: insult, offend, mortify, provoke, pique, wound, hurt"
douse	"/dous/ v. pour a liquid over; drench. ""he doused the car with gasoline and set it on fire"" synonyms: drench, soak, saturate, wet, splash, slosh ""sprayers doused the fields next to us with pesticides""   v. extinguish (a fire or light). ""stewards appeared and the fire was doused"" synonyms: extinguish, put out, quench, smother, snuff (out) ""a guard doused the flames"""
despondent	/dəˈspändənt/ adj. in low spirits from loss of hope or courage. synonyms: disheartened, discouraged, dispirited, downhearted, downcast, crestfallen, down, low, disconsolate, despairing, wretched
deplore	"/dəˈplôr/ v. feel or express strong disapproval of (something). ""we deplore this act of violence"" synonyms: abhor, find unacceptable, frown on, disapprove of, take a dim view of, take exception to"
deferential	"/ˌdefəˈren(t)SH(ə)l/ adj. showing deference; respectful. ""people were always deferential to him"" synonyms: respectful, humble, obsequious"
infamy	"/ˈinfəmē/ n. the state of being well known for some bad quality or deed. ""a day that will live in infamy"" synonyms: notoriety, disrepute, ill fame, disgrace, discredit, shame, dishonor, ignominy, scandal, censure, blame, disapprobation, condemnation"
decrepit	"/dəˈkrepət/ adj. (of a person) elderly and infirm. ""a decrepit old drunk"" synonyms: feeble, infirm, weak, weakly, frail   adj. worn out or ruined because of age or neglect. ""centuries-old buildings, now decrepit and black with soot"" synonyms: dilapidated, rickety, run-down, tumbledown, beat-up, ramshackle, derelict, ruined, in (a state of) disrepair, gone to rack and ruin"
conversant	"/kənˈvərsənt/ adj. familiar with or knowledgeable about something. ""many ladies are conversant with the merits of drill-eyed needles"" synonyms: familiar with, acquainted with, au fait with, au courant with, at home with, well versed in, well informed about, knowledgeable about, informed about, abreast of, up-to-date on"
homogenize	"/həˈmäjəˌnīz/ v. make uniform or similar. synonyms: make uniform, make similar, standardize, unite, integrate, fuse, merge, blend, meld, coalesce, amalgamate, combine ""Hollywood is homogenizing American cinema"""
degenerate	"/dəˈjen(ə)rət/  adj. having lost the physical, mental, or moral qualities considered normal and desirable; showing evidence of decline. ""a degenerate form of a higher civilization"" synonyms: debased, degraded, corrupt, impure ""a degenerate form of classicism""   /dəˈjenəˌrāt/ v. decline or deteriorate physically, mentally, or morally. ""the quality of life had degenerated"" synonyms: deteriorate, decline, slip, slide, worsen, lapse, slump, go downhill, regress, retrogress"
comity	/ˈkämədē/ n. an association of nations for their mutual benefit.   n. courtesy and considerate behavior toward others.
coagulate	"/kōˈaɡyəˌlāt/ v. (of a fluid, especially blood) change to a solid or semisolid state. ""blood had coagulated around the edges of the wound"" synonyms: congeal, clot, thicken, jell"
purse	"/pərs/ v. (with reference to the lips) pucker or contract, typically to express disapproval or irritation. ""Marianne took a glance at her reflection and pursed her lips disgustedly"" synonyms: press together, compress, tighten, pucker, pout ""she pursed her lips"""
deity	"/ˈdēədē/ n. a god or goddess (in a polytheistic religion). ""a deity of ancient Greece"" synonyms: god, goddess, divine being, supreme being, divinity, immortal   n. divine status, quality, or nature. ""a ruler driven by delusions of deity"""
vertebrate	/ˈvərdəˌbrāt/ n. an animal of a large group distinguished by the possession of a backbone or spinal column, including mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fishes.
allay	"/əˈlā/ v. diminish or put at rest (fear, suspicion, or worry). ""the report attempted to educate the public and allay fears"" synonyms: reduce, diminish, decrease, lessen, assuage, alleviate, ease, relieve, soothe, soften, calm, take the edge off ""nothing would allay his fears""   v. relieve or alleviate (pain or hunger). ""some stale figs partly allayed our hunger"""
vestibule	"/ˈvestəˌbyo͞ol/n. an antechamber, hall, or lobby next to the outer door of a building. synonyms: entrance hall, hall, hallway, entrance, porch, portico, foyer, lobby, anteroom, narthex, antechamber, waiting room ""brochures are available in the vestibule"""
repatriate	"/rēˈpātrēˌāt/ v. send (someone) back to their own country. ""the United Nations hopes to repatriate all the refugees"""
rant	"/rant/ v. speak or shout at length in a wild, impassioned way. ""she was still ranting on about the unfairness of it all"" synonyms: fulminate, go on, hold forth, vociferate, sound off, spout, pontificate, bluster, declaim"
rave	"/rāv/v. speak or write about someone or something with great enthusiasm or admiration. ""New York's theater critics raved about the acting"" synonyms: praise enthusiastically, go into raptures about/over, wax lyrical about, sing the praises of, rhapsodize over, enthuse about/over, acclaim, eulogize, extol, overpraise"
improbable	"/imˈpräbəb(ə)l/ adj. not likely to be true or to happen. ""this account of events was seen by the jury as most improbable"" synonyms: unlikely, doubtful, dubious, debatable, questionable, uncertain   adj. unexpected and apparently inauthentic. ""the characters have improbable names"" synonyms: unconvincing, unbelievable, incredible, ridiculous, absurd, preposterous, outrageous"
arouse	"/əˈrouz/ v. evoke or awaken (a feeling, emotion, or response). ""something about the man aroused the guard's suspicions"" synonyms: induce, prompt, trigger, stir up, bring out, kindle, fire, spark off, provoke, engender, cause, foster ""they had aroused his suspicion"""
fondle	"/ˈfändl/ v. stroke or caress lovingly or erotically. ""the dog came over to have his ears fondled"" synonyms: caress, stroke, pat, pet, finger, tickle, play with"
caress	"/kəˈres/ v. touch or stroke gently or lovingly. ""she caressed the girl's forehead"" synonyms: stroke, touch, fondle, brush, pet"
scorch	"/skôrCH/ v. burn the surface of (something) with flame or heat. ""surrounding houses were scorched by heat from the blast"" synonyms: burn, sear, singe, char, blacken, discolor ""the buildings were scorched by the fire"""
mow	"/mō/ v. cut down (an area of grass) with a machine. ""Roger mowed the lawn"" synonyms: cut (down), trim"
foray	"/ˈfôrˌā/ n. a sudden attack or incursion into enemy territory, especially to obtain something; a raid. ""the garrison made a foray against Richard's camp"" synonyms: raid, attack, assault, incursion, swoop, strike, onslaught, sortie, sally, push, thrust ""the foray was met with little resistance"""
bleak	"/blēk/ adj. (of an area of land) lacking vegetation and exposed to the elements. ""a bleak and barren moor"" synonyms: bare, exposed, desolate, stark, desert, lunar, open, empty, windswept   adj. (of the weather) cold and miserable. ""a bleak midwinter's day"" synonyms: cold, bitter, biting, raw, freezing, icy ""a bleak wind"""
smolder	"/ˈsmōldər/ v. burn slowly with smoke but no flame. ""the bonfire still smoldered, the smoke drifting over the paddock"" synonyms: smoke, glow, burn ""the bonfire still smoldered""   v. show or feel barely suppressed anger, hatred, or another powerful emotion. ""Anna smoldered with indignation"" synonyms: seethe, boil, fume, burn, simmer, be boiling over, be beside oneself ""she was smoldering with resentment"""
fledgling	"/ˈflejliNG/ n. a young bird that has just fledged. synonyms: chick, baby bird, nestling ""a woodpecker fledgling""   n. a person or organization that is immature, inexperienced, or underdeveloped. ""the fledgling democracies of eastern Europe"" synonyms: emerging, emergent, sunrise, dawning, embryonic, infant, nascent"
exalted	"/iɡˈzôltəd/ adj. (of a person or their rank or status) placed at a high or powerful level; held in high regard. ""it had taken her years of hard infighting to reach her present exalted rank"" synonyms: high, high-ranking, elevated, superior, lofty, eminent, prestigious, illustrious, distinguished, esteemed ""his exalted office""   adj. in a state of extreme happiness. ""I felt exalted and newly alive"" synonyms: elated, exultant, jubilant, joyful, rapturous, ecstatic, blissful, transported, happy, exuberant, exhilarated ""she felt spiritually exalted"""
equitable	"/ˈekwədəb(ə)l/ adj. fair and impartial. ""an equitable balance of power"" synonyms: fair, just, impartial, even-handed, unbiased, unprejudiced, egalitarian"
elicit	"/ēˈlisət/ v. evoke or draw out (a response, answer, or fact) from someone in reaction to one's own actions or questions. ""they invariably elicit exclamations of approval from guests"" synonyms:obtain, bring out, draw out, extract, evoke, bring about, bring forth, induce, excite, give rise to, call forth, prompt, generate, engender, spark off, trigger, kindle ""your sarcastic remarks will no doubt elicit a negative response"""
ecstatic	"/ekˈstadik/ adj. feeling or expressing overwhelming happiness or joyful excitement. ""ecstatic fans filled the stadium"" synonyms: enraptured, elated, in raptures, euphoric, rapturous, joyful, overjoyed, blissful"
droll	"/drōl/ adj. curious or unusual in a way that provokes dry amusement. ""his unique brand of droll self-mockery"" synonyms: funny, humorous, amusing, comic, comical, mirthful, hilarious"
dismissive	"/disˈmisiv/ adj. feeling or showing that something is unworthy of consideration. ""he is too dismissive of the importance of the industrialists"" synonyms: contemptuous, disdainful, scornful, sneering, snide, disparaging, negative ""he was given a dismissive wave and sent on his way"""
devolve	"/dəˈvälv/ v.  transfer or delegate (power) to a lower level, especially from central government to local or regional administration. ""measures to devolve power to the provinces"" synonyms: delegate, depute, pass (down/on), download, hand down/over/on, transfer, transmit, assign, consign, convey, entrust, turn over, give, cede, surrender, relinquish, deliver   v. (of duties or responsibility) pass to (a body or person at a lower level). ""his duties devolved on a comrade"""
devoid	"/dəˈvoid/ adj. entirely lacking or free from. ""Lisa kept her voice devoid of emotion"" synonyms: free of, empty of, vacant of, bereft of, deprived of, destitute of, bankrupt of"
debunk	"/dēˈbəNGk/ v. expose the falseness or hollowness of (a myth, idea, or belief). ""the magazine that debunks claims of the paranormal"" synonyms: explode, deflate, quash, discredit, disprove, contradict, controvert, invalidate, negate"
contrive	"/kənˈtrīv/ v. create or bring about (an object or a situation) by deliberate use of skill and artifice. ""his opponents contrived a crisis"" synonyms: bring about, engineer, manufacture, orchestrate, stage-manage, create, devise, concoct, construct, plan, fabricate, plot, hatch   v. manage to do something foolish or create an undesirable situation. ""the poor guy in some way contrived to hang himself"""
contingent	"/kənˈtinjənt/ adj. subject to chance. ""the contingent nature of the job"" synonyms: chance, accidental, fortuitous, possible, unforeseeable, unpredictable, random, haphazard ""contingent events""   adj. occurring or existing only if (certain other circumstances) are the case; dependent on. ""resolution of the conflict was contingent on the signing of a ceasefire agreement"" synonyms: dependent on, conditional on, subject to, determined by, hinging on, resting on ""the merger is contingent on government approval"""
conflation	"/kənˈflāSH(ə)n/ n. the merging of two or more sets of information, texts, ideas, etc. into one. ""the forceful conflation of two traditions"""
cavalier	"/ˌkavəˈlir/adj. showing a lack of proper concern; offhand. ""Anne was irritated by his cavalier attitude"" synonyms: offhand, indifferent, casual, dismissive, insouciant, unconcerned"
candor	"/ˈkandər/ n. the quality of being open and honest in expression; frankness. ""a man of refreshing candor"" synonyms: frankness, openness, honesty, candidness, truthfulness, sincerity, forthrightness, directness, plain-spokenness, bluntness, straightforwardness, outspokenness ""I'm not sure he appreciated my candor"""
byzantine	"/ˈbizənˌtēn/ adj. (of a system or situation) excessively complicated, typically involving a great deal of administrative detail. ""Byzantine insurance regulations"""
ballyhoo	"/ˈbalēˌho͞o/ n. extravagant publicity or fuss. ""after all the ballyhoo, the film was a flop"" synonyms: publicity, advertising, promotion, marketing, propaganda, push, puffery, buildup, boosting"
assail	"/əˈsāl/ v. make a concerted or violent attack on. ""the Scots army assailed Edward's army from the rear"" synonyms: attack, assault, pounce on, set upon/about, fall on, charge, rush, storm   v. criticize (someone) strongly. synonyms: criticize, censure, attack, condemn, pillory, revile"
intersperse	"/ˌin(t)ərˈspərs/ v. scatter among or between other things; place here and there. ""interspersed between tragic stories are a few songs supplying comic relief"" synonyms: scatter, disperse, spread, strew, dot, sprinkle, pepper ""giant poppies were interspersed among the rocks"""
aspersion	"/əˈspərZHən/ n. an attack on the reputation or integrity of someone or something. ""I don't think anyone is casting aspersions on you"" synonyms: vilify, disparage, denigrate, defame, run down, impugn, belittle, criticize, condemn, decry, denounce, pillory"
brevity	"/ˈbrevədē/ n. concise and exact use of words in writing or speech. synonyms: conciseness, concision, succinctness, economy of language, pithiness, incisiveness, shortness, compactness ""the report is notable for its brevity""   n. shortness of time. ""the brevity of human life"" synonyms: shortness, briefness, transience, ephemerality, impermanence"
redundant	"/rəˈdəndənt/ adj. not or no longer needed or useful; superfluous. ""this redundant brewery has been converted into a library"" synonyms: unnecessary, not required, inessential, unessential, needless, unneeded, uncalled for"
vindictive	"/vēnˈdiktiv/ adj. having or showing a strong or unreasoning desire for revenge. ""the criticism was both vindictive and personalized"" synonyms: vengeful, revengeful, unforgiving, resentful, acrimonious, bitter"
vehement	"/ˈvēəmənt/ adj. showing strong feeling; forceful, passionate, or intense. ""her voice was low but vehement"" synonyms: passionate, forceful, ardent, impassioned, heated, spirited, urgent, fervent, violent, fierce, fiery, strong, forcible, powerful, emphatic, vigorous, intense, earnest, keen, enthusiastic, zealous ""her vehement arguments persuaded them to save the housing project"""
upbeat	"/ˈəpˌbēt/ adj. cheerful; optimistic. synonyms: optimistic, cheerful, cheery, positive, confident, hopeful, sanguine, bullish, buoyant, gung-ho ""it's nice to read an upbeat story for a change"""
unpropitious	"/ˌənprəˈpiSHəs/ adj. (of a circumstance) not giving or indicating a good chance of success; unfavorable. ""his reports were submitted at a financially unpropitious time"""
timorous	"/ˈtim(ə)rəs/ adj. showing or suffering from nervousness, fear, or a lack of confidence. ""a timorous voice"" synonyms: easily frightened, lacking courage, fearful, apprehensive, faint-hearted"
lukewarm	"/ˈlo͞okwôrm/ adj. (of liquid or food that should be hot) only moderately warm; tepid. ""they drank bitter lukewarm coffee"" synonyms: tepid, slightly warm, warmish, at room temperature, chambré ""lukewarm coffee""   adj. (of a person, attitude, or action) unenthusiastic. ""the universities were lukewarm about the proposal from the start"" synonyms: indifferent, cool, halfhearted, apathetic, unenthusiastic, tepid, perfunctory, noncommittal, lackadaisical, unenthused"
tepid	"/ˈtepəd/ adj. (especially of a liquid) only slightly warm; lukewarm. synonyms: lukewarm, warmish, slightly warm; at room temperature ""tepid water""   adj. showing little enthusiasm. ""the applause was tepid"" synonyms: unenthusiastic, apathetic, muted, halfhearted, so-so, 'comme ci, comme ça', indifferent, subdued, cool, lukewarm, uninterested, unenthused ""a tepid response"""
recumbent	"/rəˈkəmbənt/ adj. (especially of a person or human figure) lying down. ""recumbent statues"" synonyms: lying, flat, horizontal, stretched out, sprawled (out), reclining, prone, prostrate, supine; lying down ""he stepped over Sadie's recumbent body"""
startling	"/ˈstärdliNG/ adj. very surprising, astonishing, or remarkable. ""he bore a startling likeness to their father"" synonyms: surprising, astonishing, amazing, unexpected, unforeseen, staggering, shocking, stunning"
moralize	"/ˈmôrəˌlīz/ v. comment on issues of right and wrong, typically with an unfounded air of superiority. ""the self-righteous moralizing of his aunt was ringing in his ears"" synonyms: pontificate, sermonize, lecture, preach ""it isn't your job to moralize to me""   v. reform the character and conduct of. ""he endeavored to moralize an immoral society"""
self-righteous	"/ˌself ˈrīCHəs/ adj. having or characterized by a certainty, especially an unfounded one, that one is totally correct or morally superior. ""self-righteous indignation and complacency"" synonyms: sanctimonious, holier-than-thou, self-satisfied, smug, priggish, complacent, pious, moralizing, preachy, superior, hypocritical ""we listened to Mom because she wasn't as self-righteous as you"" antonyms: humble"
reparation	"/ˌrepəˈrāSH(ə)n/ n. the making of amends for a wrong one has done, by paying money to or otherwise helping those who have been wronged. ""the courts required a convicted offender to make financial reparation to his victim"" synonyms: amends, restitution, redress, compensation, recompense, repayment, atonement ""the victims are seeking reparation"""
promiscuous	"/prəˈmiskyo͞oəs/ adj. having or characterized by many transient sexual relationships.  ""promiscuous teenagers""     Similar: licentious, sexually indiscriminate, wild, debauched, dissolute  adj. demonstrating or implying an undiscriminating or unselective approach; indiscriminate or casual. ""the city fathers were promiscuous with their honors"" synonyms: indiscriminate, undiscriminating, unselective, random, haphazard, irresponsible, unthinking, unconsidered ""promiscuous reading"""
lush	"/ləSH/ adj. (of vegetation) growing luxuriantly. ""lush greenery and cultivated fields"" synonyms: luxuriant, rich, abundant, profuse, exuberant, riotous, prolific, vigorous antonyms: barren, meager   adj. very rich and providing great sensory pleasure. ""lush orchestrations"" synonyms: succulent, luscious, juicy, soft, tender, ripe antonyms: shriveled, austere   adj. (of a woman) very sexually attractive. ""Marianne, with her lush body and provocative green eyes"""
imbibe	"/imˈbīb/ v. drink (alcohol). ""they were imbibing far too many pitchers of beer"" synonyms: drink, consume, quaff, guzzle, gulp (down)   v. absorb or assimilate (ideas or knowledge). ""she had imbibed the gospel of modernism from Kandinsky"" synonyms: assimilate, absorb, soak up, take in, drink in, digest, learn, acquire, grasp, pick up, familiarize oneself with ""imbibing local history"""
row	"/rou/ n. a noisy acrimonious quarrel. ""they had a row and she stormed out of the house"" synonyms: argument, quarrel, squabble, fight, contretemps, falling-out, disagreement, dispute, clash, altercation, shouting match   v. have a quarrel. ""they rowed about who would receive the money from the sale"""
dupe	"/d(y)o͞op/ v. deceive; trick. ""the newspaper was duped into publishing an untrue story"" synonyms: deceive, trick, hoodwink, hoax, swindle, defraud, cheat, double-cross   n. a victim of deception. ""knowing accomplices or unknowing dupes"" synonyms: victim, gull, pawn, puppet, instrument"
amply	"/ˈamplē/ adv. enough or more than enough; plentifully. ""the persistent reader is amply rewarded"""
curfew	"/ˈkərˌfyo͞o/ n. a regulation requiring people to remain indoors between specified hours, typically at night. ""a dusk-to-dawn curfew"""
mute	"/myo͞ot/ v. deaden, muffle, or soften the sound of. ""her footsteps were muted by the thick carpet"" synonyms: deaden, muffle, dampen, soften, quiet, hush antonyms: amplify   v. reduce the strength or intensity of. ""his professional contentment was muted by personal sadness"" synonyms: restrain, soften, tone down, moderate, temper ""Bruce muted his criticisms"" antonyms: intensify"
steadfast	"/ˈstedˌfast/ adj. resolutely or dutifully firm and unwavering. ""steadfast loyalty"" synonyms: loyal, faithful, committed, devoted, dedicated, dependable, reliable, steady, true, constant, staunch, solid, trusty"
dignitary	/ˈdiɡnəˌterē/ n. a person considered to be important because of high rank or office. synonyms: worthy, personage, VIP, grandee, notable, pillar of society, luminary, leading light, big name
miser	/ˈmīzər/ n. a person who hoards wealth and spends as little money as possible. synonyms: penny-pincher, Scrooge, pinchpenny
decimation	"/ˌdesəˈmāSH(ə)n/ n. the killing or destruction of a large proportion of a group or species. ""our growing hunger for fish has resulted in the decimation of fish stocks"""
chauvinist	"/ˈSHōvənəst/ n. a person displaying aggressive or exaggerated patriotism.   adj. showing or relating to excessive or prejudiced loyalty or support for a particular group or cause. ""a chauvinist slur"" synonyms: jingoistic, chauvinistic, excessively patriotic, excessively nationalistic, flag-waving, xenophobic, racist, racialist, ethnocentric"
stubble	"/ˈstəb(ə)l/ n. the cut stalks of grain plants left sticking out of the ground after the grain is harvested. synonyms: stalks, straw ""a field of stubble""   n. short, stiff hairs growing on a man's face when he has not shaved for a while. synonyms: bristles, whiskers, facial hair ""gray stubble"""
cobweb	/ˈkäbˌweb/ n. a spider's web, especially when old and covered with dust.
forger	"/ˈfôrjər/ n. a person who produces fraudulent copies or imitations. ""one of Europe's most notorious art forgers"""
preside	"/prəˈzīd/ v. be in the position of authority in a meeting or gathering. ""Bishop Herbener presided at the meeting"" synonyms: chair, be chairman/chairwoman/chairperson of/at, officiate (at), conduct, lead ""Dorothy presides at the meeting"""
breakneck	"/ˈbrākˌnek/ adj. dangerously or extremely fast. ""he drove at breakneck speed"" synonyms: extremely fast, rapid, speedy, high-speed, lightning, whirlwind ""the breakneck pace of change"""
slashing	"/ˈslaSHiNG/ adj. vigorously incisive or effective. ""a slashing magazine attack on her"""
gubernatorial	"/ˌɡo͞obərnəˈtôrēəl/ adj. relating to a state governor or the office of state governor. ""a gubernatorial election"""
recuse	"/riˈkyo͞oz/ v. challenge (a judge, prosecutor, or juror) as unqualified to perform legal duties because of a possible conflict of interest or lack of impartiality. ""a motion to recuse the prosecutor""   v. (of a judge) excuse oneself from a case because of a possible conflict of interest or lack of impartiality. ""the Justice Department demanded that he recuse himself from the case"""
tumble	"/ˈtəmbəl/ v. (typically of a person) fall suddenly, clumsily, or headlong. ""she pitched forward, tumbling down the remaining stairs"" synonyms: fall (over), fall down, topple over, lose one's balance, keel over, take a spill, go headlong, go head over heels, trip, stumble ""he tumbled over"""
unnerve	"/ˌənˈnərv/ v. make (someone) lose courage or confidence. ""the bleakness of his gaze unnerved her"" synonyms: demoralize, discourage, dishearten, dispirit, daunt, alarm, frighten, dismay, disconcert, discompose, perturb, upset, discomfit, take a back, unsettle, disquiet, fluster, agitate, shake, ruffle, throw off balance"
parched	"/pärCHt/ adj. dried out with heat. ""the parched earth""   adj. extremely thirsty. adjective: parched; past participle: parched ""I'm parched—I'll die without a drink"" synonyms: thirsty, longing for a drink, dry, dehydrated ""I'm parched"""
yearn	"/yərn/ v. have an intense feeling of longing for something, typically something that one has lost or been separated from. ""she yearned for a glimpse of him"" synonyms: long for, pine for, crave, desire, want, wish for, hanker for, covet, lust after/for, pant for, hunger for, burn for, thirst for, ache for, eat one's heart out for, have one's heart set on"
competent	"/ˈkämpədənt/ adj. having the necessary ability, knowledge, or skill to do something successfully. ""a highly competent surgeon""   adj. (of a person) efficient and capable. ""an infinitely competent mother of three"" synonyms: capable, able, proficient, adept, adroit, accomplished, complete, skillful, skilled, credentialed, gifted, talented, expert"
laureate	"/ˈlôrēət/ n. a person who is honored with an award for outstanding creative or intellectual achievement. ""a Nobel laureate"""
aloft	"/əˈlôft/ adj. up in or into the air; overhead. ""the congregation sways, hands aloft"" synonyms: upward, up, high, in(to) the air, in(to) the sky, skyward, on high, overhead, heavenward, high (up), up above ""they held the banner aloft"""
platoon	"/pləˈto͞on/ n. a subdivision of a company of soldiers, usually forming a tactical unit that is commanded by a lieutenant and divided into several sections. synonyms: unit, patrol, troop, squad, squadron, team, company, corps, outfit, detachment, contingent ""our platoon lost 200 men on that mission"""
infantry	/ˈinfəntrē/ n. soldiers marching or fighting on foot; foot soldiers collectively. synonyms: infantrymen, foot soldiers, foot guards
parapet	"/ˈperəpət/ n. a low protective wall along the edge of a roof, bridge, or balcony. synonyms: balustrade, barrier, wall ""Marian leaned over the parapet""   n. a protective wall or earth defense along the top of a trench or other place of concealment for troops. synonyms: barricade, rampart, bulwark, bank, embankment, fortification, defense, earthwork, breastwork, bastion ""the sandbags making up the parapet"""
suffuse	"/səˈfyo͞oz/ v. gradually spread through or over. ""her cheeks were suffused with color"" synonyms: permeate, spread over, spread throughout, cover, bathe, pervade, wash, saturate, imbue ""the room was suffused with soft, pink light"""
crescent	"/ˈkres(ə)nt/ n. a thing that has has the shape of a single curve, especially one that is broad in the center and tapers to a point at each end. ""a three-mile crescent of golden sand"" synonyms: half-moon, sickle-shape, lunula, lunette"
striate	"/ˈstrīˌāt/ v. mark with striae. ""striated bark"""
stria	/ˈstrīə/ n. a linear mark, slight ridge, or groove on a surface, often one of a number of similar parallel features.
obscenity	"/əbˈsenədē/ n. the state or quality of being obscene; obscene behavior, language, or images. ""the book was banned for obscenity"" synonyms: indecency, immorality, impropriety, salaciousness, smuttiness, smut, lewdness, impurity, crudeness, vulgarity, dirtiness, dirt, filth, coarseness, crudity   n. an extremely offensive word or expression. ""the men scowled and muttered obscenities"" synonyms: expletive, swear word, oath, profanity, curse, four-letter word, dirty word, blasphemy"
trachea	/ˈtrākēə/ n. a large membranous tube reinforced by rings of cartilage, extending from the larynx to the bronchial tubes and conveying air to and from the lungs; the windpipe.
cartilage	/ˈkärdlij/ n. firm, whitish, flexible connective tissue found in various forms in the larynx and respiratory tract, in structures such as the external ear, and in the articulating surfaces of joints. It is more widespread in the infant skeleton, being replaced by bone during growth.
demean	"/dəˈmēn/ v. cause a severe loss in the dignity of and respect for (someone or something). ""I had demeaned the profession"" synonyms: degrading, humiliating, shameful, mortifying, abject, ignominious, undignified, inglorious ""a demeaning experience""   v. do something that is beneath one's dignity. synonyms: debase, lower, degrade, discredit, devalue"
banter	"/ˈban(t)ər/v. the playful and friendly exchange of teasing remarks. ""there was much good-natured banter"" synonyms:repartee, raillery, ripostes, sallies, swordplay, quips, wisecracks, crosstalk, wordplay"
cerebral	"/ˈserəbrəl/ adj. of the cerebrum of the brain. ""a cerebral hemorrhage"""
brainy	"/ˈbrānē/ adj. having or showing intelligence. ""a brainy, high-powered lawyer"" synonyms: clever, intelligent, smart, bright, brilliant, gifted"
jut	"/jət/ v. extend out, over, or beyond the main body or line of something. ""a rock jutted out from the side of the bank"" synonyms: stick out, project, protrude, bulge out, overhang ""the face of the cliff is sheer, except for one shelf of rock that juts out""   v. cause (something, such as one's chin) to protrude. ""she put up her head and jutted out her chin with determination"""
swindle	"/ˈswindl/  v. use deception to deprive (someone) of money or possessions. ""a businessman swindled investors out of millions of dollars""   n. a fraudulent scheme or action. ""he is mixed up in a $10 million insurance swindle"" synonyms: fraud, trick, deception, deceit, cheat, sham, artifice, ruse, dodge, racket, wile"
docile	"/ˈdäsəl/ adj. ready to accept control or instruction; submissive. ""a cheap and docile workforce"" synonyms: compliant, obedient, pliant, dutiful, submissive, deferential, unassertive, cooperative, amenable, accommodating, biddable, malleable ""his docile children do everything he asks of them"""
ploy	"/ploi/ n. a cunning plan or action designed to turn a situation to one's own advantage. ""the president has dismissed the referendum as a ploy to buy time"" synonyms: ruse, tactic, move, device, stratagem, scheme, trick, gambit, plan, maneuver, dodge, subterfuge, wile ""perhaps this had been a ploy to revive her husband's fading interest"""
improvident	"/ˌimˈprävəd(ə)nt/ adj. not having or showing foresight; spendthrift or thoughtless. ""improvident and undisciplined behavior"" synonyms: spendthrift, thriftless, wasteful, prodigal, profligate, extravagant, lavish, free-spending, immoderate, excessive"
fizzle	"/ˈfizəl/ v. make a feeble hissing or spluttering sound. ""the strobe lights fizzled and flickered"" synonyms: crackle, buzz, hiss, fizz, crepitate ""the loudspeaker fizzled""   n. a feeble hissing or spluttering sound. ""the electric fizzle of the waves"""
sizzle	"/ˈsizəl/ v. (of food) make a hissing sound when frying or cooking. ""the bacon began to sizzle in the pan"" synonyms: crackle, frizzle, sputter, spit ""the sizzle of bacon in the skillet""   n. a hissing sound, as of food frying or cooking. ""the sizzle of hot dogs"""
gnarled	"/närld/ adj. knobbly, rough, and twisted, especially with age. ""the gnarled old oak tree"" synonyms: knobbly, knotty, knotted, gnarly, lumpy, bumpy, nodular"
base	"/bās/ adj. (of a person or a person's actions or feelings) without moral principles; ignoble. ""the electorate's baser instincts of greed and selfishness"" synonyms: sordid, ignoble, low, low-minded, mean, immoral, improper, unseemly, unscrupulous, unprincipled, dishonest, dishonorable, shameful, bad, wrong, evil, wicked, iniquitous, sinful ""base motives"" antonyms: noble"
begrudge	"/bəˈɡrəj/ v. envy (someone) the possession or enjoyment of (something). ""she begrudged Martin his affluence"" synonyms: envy, resent, grudge   v. give reluctantly or resentfully. ""nobody begrudges a single penny spent on health"" synonyms: resent, feel aggrieved about, feel bitter about, be annoyed about, be resentful of, grudge, mind, object to, take exception to, regret ""don't begrudge the cost"""
obliging	"/əˈblījiNG/ adj. willing to do a service or kindness; helpful. synonyms: helpful, accommodating, willing, cooperative, considerate, complaisant, agreeable, amenable, generous, kind, neighborly, hospitable, friendly, pleasant, good-natured, amiable, gracious, unselfish, civil, courteous, polite, decent ""he was obliging enough to carry all the bags"""
unforthcoming	"/ˌənfôrTHˈkəmiNG/ adj. (of a person) not willing to divulge information. ""the sergeant seemed unforthcoming, so he inquired at the gate""   adj. (of something required) not ready or made available when wanted or needed. ""with money unforthcoming from the company, the project has had to be delayed"""
patronize	"/ˈpatrəˌnīz/ v. treat with an apparent kindness that betrays a feeling of superiority. ""“She's a good-hearted girl,” he said in a patronizing voice"" synonyms: treat condescendingly, condescend to, look down on, talk down to, put down, treat like a child, treat with disdain   v. frequent (a store, theater, restaurant, or other establishment) as a customer. ""restaurants remaining open in the evening were well patronized"" synonyms: do business with, buy from, shop at, be a customer of, be a client of, deal with, trade with, frequent, support ""they patronized local merchants"""
inimitable	"/iˈnimədəb(ə)l/ adj. so good or unusual as to be impossible to copy; unique. ""the inimitable ambience of Hawaii"" synonyms: incomparable, unparalleled, unrivaled, peerless, matchless, unequaled, unsurpassable, superlative, supreme, perfect, beyond compare, second to none, in a class of one's own"
cardinal	"/ˈkärd(ə)nl/ adj. of the greatest importance; fundamental. ""two cardinal points must be borne in mind"" synonyms: fundamental, basic, main, chief, primary, crucial, pivotal, prime, principal, paramount, preeminent, highest, key, essential ""you've broken one of the cardinal rules"""
provisional	"/prəˈviZHənl/ adj. arranged or existing for the present, possibly to be changed later; not final ""a provisional government"" synonyms: interim, temporary, pro tem"
insidious	"/inˈsidēəs/ adj. proceeding in a gradual, subtle way, but with harmful effects. ""sexually transmitted diseases can be insidious and sometimes without symptoms"" synonyms: stealthy, subtle, surreptitious, cunning, crafty, treacherous, artful, sly, wily, shifty, underhanded, indirect ""the insidious bond between big money and political decisions"""
stale	"/stāl/adj. (of food) no longer fresh and pleasant to eat; hard, musty, or dry. ""stale bread"" synonyms: old, past its best, off, dry, hard, musty, rancid, overstored ""stale food""   v. make or become stale."
predicate	"/ˈpredəˌkāt/ v. found or base something on. ""the theory of structure on which later chemistry was predicated"" synonyms: base, be dependent, found, establish, rest, ground, premise ""expansion of the group is predicated on further research"""
surmount	"/sərˈmount/ v. overcome (a difficulty or obstacle). ""all manner of cultural differences were surmounted"" synonyms: overcome, conquer, prevail over, triumph over, beat, vanquish   v. stand or be placed on top of. ""the tomb was surmounted by a sculptured angel"" synonyms: cap, top, crown, finish ""the dome is surmounted by a statue"""
exorcise	"/ˈeksôrˌsīz/ v. drive out or attempt to drive out (an evil spirit) from a person or place. ""an attempt to exorcise an unquiet spirit"" synonyms: drive out, cast out, expel ""exorcising an evil spirit"""
ominous	"/ˈämənəs/ adj. giving the impression that something bad or unpleasant is going to happen; threatening; inauspicious. ""there were ominous dark clouds gathering overhead"" synonyms: threatening, menacing, baleful, forbidding, sinister, inauspicious, unpropitious, unfavorable, unpromising"
revel	"/ˈrevəl/ v. enjoy oneself in a lively and noisy way, especially with drinking and dancing. ""a night of drunken reveling"" synonyms: celebrate, make merry, have a party, carouse, roister, go on a spree"
balk	"/bôk/ v. hesitate or be unwilling to accept an idea or undertaking. ""any gardener will at first balk at enclosing the garden"" synonyms: be unwilling to (be), draw the line at, be reluctant to (be), hesitate over"
recast	/rēˈkast/ v. give (a metal object) a different form by melting it down and reshaping it.
delineate	"/dəˈlinēˌāt/ v. describe or portray (something) precisely. ""the law should delineate and prohibit behavior that is socially abhorrent"" synonyms: describe, set forth/out, present, outline, sketch, depict, represent   v. indicate the exact position of (a border or boundary). synonyms: outline, trace, block in, mark (out/off), delimit ""a section delineated in red pen"""
mediate	"/ˈmēdēˌāt/ v. intervene between people in a dispute in order to bring about an agreement or reconciliation. ""Wilson attempted to mediate between the powers to end the war"" synonyms: arbitrate, conciliate, moderate, act as peacemaker, make peace"
profundity	"/prəˈfəndədē/ n. deep insight; great depth of knowledge or thought. ""the simplicity and profundity of the message""   n. great depth or intensity of a state, quality, or emotion. ""the profundity of her misery"""
noncommittal	"/ˌnänkəˈmidl/ adj. (of a person or a person's behavior or manner) not expressing or revealing commitment to a definite opinion or course of action. ""her tone was noncommittal, and her face gave nothing away"" synonyms: evasive, equivocal, guarded, circumspect, reserved"
lackluster	"/ˈlakˌləstər/ adj. lacking in vitality, force, or conviction; uninspired or uninspiring. ""no excuses were made for the team's lackluster performance"" synonyms: uninspired, uninspiring, unimaginative, dull, humdrum, uninvolving, colorless, characterless, bland, dead, insipid, vapid, flat, dry, lifeless, tame, prosaic, spiritless, lusterless"
cleave	"/klēv/ v. split or sever (something), especially along a natural line or grain. ""the large ax his father used to cleave wood for the fire"" synonyms: split (open), cut (up), hew, hack, chop up ""cleaving wood for the fire""   v. make a way through (something) forcefully, as if by splitting it apart. ""they watched a coot cleave the smooth water"" synonyms: plow, drive, bulldoze, carve ""cleaving a path through the traffic"""
stray	"/strā/ v. move away aimlessly from a group or from the right course or place. ""I strayed a few blocks in the wrong direction"" synonyms: wander off, go astray, get separated, get lost   adj. not in the right place; separated from the group or target. ""he pushed a few stray hairs from her face"" synonyms: random, chance, freak, unexpected, isolated, lone, single ""a stray bullet""   n. a stray person or thing, especially a domestic animal. synonyms: homeless animal, stray dog/cat, waif ""she adopted three strays"""
pensive	"/ˈpensiv/ adj. engaged in, involving, or reflecting deep or serious thought. ""a pensive mood"" synonyms: thoughtful, reflective, contemplative, musing, meditative, introspective, ruminative, absorbed, preoccupied, deep/lost in thought, in a brown study"
churlish	"/ˈCHərliSH/ adj. rude in a mean-spirited and surly way. ""it seems churlish to complain"" synonyms: rude, ill-mannered, ill-bred, discourteous, impolite, unmannerly, uncivil, unchivalrous"
rustic	/ˈrəstik/ adj. relating to the countryside; rural.   adj. constructed or made in a plain and simple fashion, in particular. synonyms: plain, simple, homely, unsophisticated
fiscal	"/ˈfisk(ə)l/ adj. relating to government revenue, especially taxes. ""monetary and fiscal policy"" synonyms: budgetary"
reprehensible	"/ˌreprəˈhensəb(ə)l/ adj. deserving censure or condemnation. ""his complacency and reprehensible laxity"" synonyms: deplorable, disgraceful, discreditable, despicable, blameworthy, culpable, wrong, bad, shameful, dishonorable, objectionable, opprobrious, repugnant, inexcusable, unforgivable, indefensible, unjustifiable"
myriad	"/ˈmirēəd/ n. a countless or extremely great number. ""networks connecting a myriad of computers"" synonyms: a multitude, a large/great number, a large/great quantity, scores, quantities, a mass, a host, droves, a horde   adj. countless or extremely great in number. synonyms: innumerable, countless, infinite, numberless, untold, unnumbered, immeasurable, multitudinous, numerous ""the myriad lights of the city"""
excruciating	"/ikˈskro͞oSHēˌādiNG/ adj. intensely painful. ""excruciating back pain"" synonyms: agonizing, severe, acute, intense, violent, racking, searing, piercing, stabbing, raging"
hound	"/hound/v. harass, persecute, or pursue relentlessly. ""a tenacious attorney general who had hounded Jimmy Hoffa and other labor bosses"" synonyms: pursue, chase, follow, shadow, be hot on someone's heels, hunt (down), stalk, track, trail, tail, dog"
juggernaut	"/ˈjəɡərˌnôt/ n. a huge, powerful, and overwhelming force or institution. ""a juggernaut of secular and commercial culture"""
preempt	"/prēˈempt/ v. take action in order to prevent (an anticipated event) from happening; forestall. ""the government preempted a coup attempt"" synonyms: forestall, prevent ""his action may have preempted war""   v. acquire or appropriate (something) in advance. ""many tables were already preempted by family parties"" synonyms: commandeer, occupy, seize, arrogate, appropriate, take over, secure, reserve"
preemptive	"/prēˈemptiv/ adj. serving or intended to preempt or forestall something, especially to prevent attack by disabling the enemy. ""preemptive action""   adj. relating to the purchase of goods or shares by one person or party before the opportunity is offered to others. ""preemptive rights"""
hodgepodge	"/ˈhäjˌpäj/ n. a confused mixture. ""Rob's living room was a hodgepodge of modern furniture and antiques"" synonyms: mixture, mix, mixed bag, assortment, random collection, conglomeration, jumble, ragbag, grab bag, miscellany, medley, salmagundi, potpourri, patchwork, pastiche"
squelch	"/skwelCH/ v. make a soft sucking sound such as that made by walking heavily through mud. ""bedraggled guests squelched across the lawn to seek shelter""   n. a soft sucking sound made when pressure is applied to liquid or mud. ""the squelch of their feet"""
conglomerate	"/kənˈɡlämərət/ n. a number of different things or parts that are put or grouped together to form a whole but remain distinct entities. ""the Earth is a specialized conglomerate of organisms"" synonyms: mixture, mix, combination, amalgamation, union, marriage, fusion, composite, synthesis   v. gather together into a compact mass. ""atoms that conglomerate at the center"" synonyms: coalesce, unite, join, combine, merge, fuse, consolidate, amalgamate, integrate, mingle, intermingle ""the debris conglomerated into planets"""
cornucopia	"/ˌkôrn(y)əˈkōpēə/ n. a symbol of plenty consisting of a goat's horn overflowing with flowers, fruit, and corn.   n. an abundant supply of good things of a specified kind. ""the festival offers a cornucopia of pleasures"" synonyms: an abundance, a profusion, a plentifulness, a profuseness, a copiousness, an amplitude, a lavishness, a bountifulness, a bounty"
effervescent	"/ˌefərˈves(ə)nt/ adj. (of a liquid) giving off bubbles; fizzy. synonyms: fizzy, sparkling, carbonated, aerated, gassy, bubbly ""an effervescent drink""   adj. vivacious and enthusiastic. ""effervescent young people"""
bubbly	"/ˈbəb(ə)lē/ adj. containing bubbles. ""bake until the top is crisp and bubbly"" synonyms: sparkling, bubbling, fizzy, effervescent, gassy, aerated, carbonated   adj. (of a person) full of cheerful high spirits. ""a bright and bubbly personality"" synonyms: vivacious, animated, ebullient, exuberant, lively, high-spirited, zestful"
heyday	"/ˈhāˌdā/ n. the period of a person's or thing's greatest success, popularity, or vigor. ""the paper has lost millions of readers since its heyday in 1964"" synonyms: prime, peak, height, pinnacle, summit, apex, acme, zenith, climax, high point"
culinary	"/ˈkələˌnerē/ adj. of or for cooking. ""culinary skills"""
assiduously	"/əˈsijo͞oəslē/ adv. with great care and perseverance. ""leaders worked assiduously to hammer out an action plan"""
credible	"/ˈkredəb(ə)l/ adj. able to be believed; convincing. ""few people found his story credible"" synonyms: believable, plausible, tenable, able to hold water, conceivable, likely, probable, possible, feasible, reasonable, with a ring of truth, persuasive ""only one of the so-called witnesses could provide a credible story""   adj. capable of persuading people that something will happen or be successful. ""a credible threat"""
forthright	"/ˈfôrTHˌrīt/ adj. (of a person or their manner or speech) direct and outspoken; straightforward and honest. ""his most forthright attack yet on the reforms"" synonyms: frank, direct, straightforward, honest, candid, open, sincere, outspoken, straight, blunt, plain-spoken, no-nonsense, downright, bluff, matter-of-fact, to the point ""a forthright statement to the press about her involvement in the cover-up"""
immaterial	"/ˌi(m)məˈtirēəl/ adj. unimportant under the circumstances; irrelevant. ""so long as the band kept the beat, what they played was immaterial"" synonyms: irrelevant, unimportant, inconsequential, insignificant, of no matter/consequence, of little account, beside the point, neither here nor there ""the difference in our ages was immaterial"""
modicum	"/ˈmädəkəm/ n. a small quantity of a particular thing, especially something considered desirable or valuable. ""his statement had more than a modicum of truth"" synonyms: small amount, particle, speck, fragment, scrap, crumb, grain, morsel, shred, dash, drop, pinch, soupçon, jot, iota, whit, atom, smattering, scintilla, hint, suggestion, tinge"
bygone	"/ˈbīˌɡôn/ adj. belonging to an earlier time. ""relics of a bygone society"" synonyms: past, former, olden, earlier, previous, one-time, long-ago, of old, ancient, antiquated   n. a thing dating from an earlier time."
pastoral	"/ˈpastərəl/ adj. (especially of land or a farm) used for or related to the keeping or grazing of sheep or cattle. ""scattered pastoral farms""   n. a work of literature portraying an idealized version of country life. ""the story, though a pastoral, has an actual connection with the life of agricultural labor"""
squatter	/ˈskwädər/ n. a person who unlawfully occupies an uninhabited building or unused land.
scurry	"/ˈskərē/ v. (of a person or small animal) move hurriedly with short quick steps. ""pedestrians scurried for cover"" synonyms: hurry, hasten, run, rush, dash   n. a situation of hurried and confused movement. ""I was in such a scurry"" synonyms: rush, race, dash, run, hurry"
unremitting	"/ˌənrəˈmidiNG/ adj. never relaxing or slackening; incessant. ""unremitting drizzle"" synonyms: relentless, incessant, unrelenting, continual, constant, continuous, unabating, uninterrupted, unbroken, unrelieved, sustained, unshakable, unceasing, ceaseless, endless, unending, persistent, perpetual, interminable; merciless ""the unremitting rain"""
meander	"/mēˈandər/ v. (of a river or road) follow a winding course. ""a river that meandered gently through a meadow"" synonyms: zigzag, wind, twist, turn, curve, curl, bend, snake ""the river meandered gently""   n. a winding curve or bend of a river or road. ""the river flows in sweeping meanders"""
desecrate	"/ˈdesəˌkrāt/  v. treat (a sacred place or thing) with violent disrespect; violate. ""more than 300 graves were desecrated"" synonyms: violate, profane, defile, debase, degrade, dishonor"
derogatory	"/dəˈräɡəˌtôrē/ adj. showing a critical or disrespectful attitude. ""she tells me I'm fat and is always making derogatory remarks"" synonyms: disparaging, denigratory, deprecatory, disrespectful, demeaning"
proponent	"/prəˈpōnənt/ n. a person who advocates a theory, proposal, or project. ""a collection of essays by both critics and proponents of graphology"" synonyms: advocate, champion, supporter, backer, promoter, protagonist, campaigner, booster, cheerleader ""a proponent of the youth basketball program"""
loath	"/lōTH/ adj. reluctant; unwilling. ""I was loath to leave"" synonyms: reluctant, unwilling, disinclined, ill-disposed, not in the mood antonyms: willing, eager"
inviolable	"/inˈvīələbəl/ adj. never to be broken, infringed, or dishonored. ""an inviolable rule of chastity"""
despot	"/ˈdespət/ n. a ruler or other person who holds absolute power, typically one who exercises it in a cruel or oppressive way. synonyms: tyrant, oppressor, dictator, absolute ruler, totalitarian, autocrat ""when one despot is deposed for another, the cycle of repression continues"""
incontrovertible	"/ˌinkäntrəˈvərdəb(ə)l/ adj. not able to be denied or disputed. ""incontrovertible proof"" synonyms: indisputable, incontestable, undeniable, irrefutable, unassailable, beyond dispute, unquestionable, beyond question, indubitable, beyond doubt, unarguable, undebatable"
inequity	"/inˈekwədē/ n. lack of fairness or justice. ""policies aimed at redressing racial inequity"" synonyms: unfairness, injustice, unjustness, discrimination, partisanship, partiality, favoritism, bias, prejudice ""the inequity of the law"""
dog	"/dôɡ/ v. follow (someone or their movements) closely and persistently. ""photographers seemed to dog her every step"" synonyms: pursue, follow, track, trail, shadow, hound ""they dogged him the length of the country"""
artifice	"/ˈärdəfəs/ n. clever or cunning devices or expedients, especially as used to trick or deceive others. ""artifice and outright fakery"" synonyms: trickery, deceit, deception, duplicity, guile, cunning, artfulness, wiliness, craftiness, slyness, chicanery"
antic	/ˈan(t)ik/ adj. grotesque or bizarre.
grotesque	"/ɡrōˈtesk/ adj. comically or repulsively ugly or distorted. ""grotesque facial distortions"" synonyms: malformed, deformed, misshapen, misproportioned, distorted, twisted, gnarled, mangled, mutilated   n. a very ugly or comically distorted figure, creature, or image. ""the rods are carved in the form of a series of gargoyle faces and grotesques"""
nuance	"/ˈn(y)o͞oˌäns/ n. a subtle difference in or shade of meaning, expression, or sound. ""the nuances of facial expression and body language"" synonyms: fine distinction, subtle difference"
exclamation	"/ˌekskləˈmāSH(ə)n/ n. a sudden cry or remark, especially expressing surprise, anger, or pain. ""Meg gave an involuntary exclamation"" synonyms: cry, call, shout, yell, interjection ""an exclamation of amazement"""
unworldly	"/ˌənˈwərldlē/ adj .(of a person) not having much awareness of the realities of life, in particular, not motivated by material or practical considerations. ""she was so shrewd in some ways, but hopelessly unworldly in others"" synonyms: naive, simple, inexperienced, innocent, green, raw, callow, immature, ignorant, gullible, ingenuous, artless, guileless, childlike, trusting, credulous   adj. not seeming to belong to this planet; strange. ""the unworldly monolith loomed four stories high"" synonyms: unearthly, otherworldly, ethereal, ghostly, preternatural, supernatural, paranormal, mystical ""unworldly beauty"""
anesthesia	/ˌanəsˈTHēZHə/ n. insensitivity to pain, especially as artificially induced by the administration of gases or the injection of drugs before surgical operations.
smug	"/sməɡ/ adj. having or showing an excessive pride in oneself or one's achievements. synonyms: self-satisfied, self-congratulatory, complacent, superior, pleased with oneself, conceited ""he was feeling smug after his win"""
delusion	"/dəˈlo͞oZHən/ n. an idiosyncratic belief or impression that is firmly maintained despite being contradicted by what is generally accepted as reality or rational argument, typically a symptom of mental disorder. ""the delusion of being watched"" synonyms: misapprehension, misconception, misunderstanding, mistake, error, misinterpretation, misconstruction, misbelief   n. the action of deluding someone or the state of being deluded. ""what a capacity television has for delusion"""
indelible	"/inˈdeləb(ə)l/ adj. not able to be forgotten or removed. ""his story made an indelible impression on me"" synonyms: ineradicable, permanent, lasting, ingrained, persisting, enduring, unfading, unforgettable, haunting, never to be forgotten ""indelible memories"""
attune	"/əˈt(y)o͞on/ v. make receptive or aware. ""a society more attuned to consumerism than ideology""   v. accustom or acclimatize. ""students are not attuned to making decisions"" synonyms: accustom, adjust, adapt, acclimatize, condition, accommodate, assimilate; acclimate ""we are finally attuned to city life"""
searing	"/ˈsiriNG/ adj. extremely hot or intense. ""the searing heat of the sun"" synonyms: scorching, blistering, sweltering, blazing (hot), burning, fiery, torrid   adj. severely critical. ""a searing indictment of the government's performance"" synonyms: fierce, savage, blistering, scathing, stinging, devastating, mordant, trenchant, caustic, cutting, biting, withering ""a searing attack"""
parishioner	/pəˈriSH(ə)nər/ n. an inhabitant of a parish, especially one who belongs to or attends a particular church.
reel	"/rēl/ v. lose one's balance and stagger or lurch violently. ""he punched Connolly in the ear, sending him reeling"" synonyms: stagger, lurch, sway, rock, stumble, totter, wobble, falter ""he reeled as the ship began to roll"""
convulse	"/kənˈvəls/ v. (of a person) suffer violent involuntary contraction of the muscles, producing contortion of the body or limbs. ""she convulsed, collapsing to the floor with the pain"" synonyms: shake uncontrollably, go into spasms, shudder, jerk, thrash about ""his whole body convulsed""   v. throw (a country) into violent social or political upheaval. ""a wave of mass strikes convulsed the Ruhr, Berlin, and central Germany"""
condescension	"/ˌkändəˈsen(t)SH(ə)n/ n. an attitude of patronizing superiority; disdain. ""a tone of condescension"""
cube	"/kyo͞ob/ v. cut (food) into small cubes. ""I bought sirloin from the butcher and cubed it myself"""
leery	"/ˈlirē/ adj. cautious or wary due to realistic suspicions. ""a city leery of gang violence"" synonyms: wary, cautious, careful, guarded, chary, suspicious, distrustful"
impede	"/imˈpēd/ v. delay or prevent (someone or something) by obstructing them; hinder. ""the sap causes swelling that can impede breathing"" synonyms: hinder, obstruct, hamper, hold back/up, delay, interfere with, disrupt, retard, slow (down), hobble, cripple"
destitute	"/ˈdestəˌt(y)o͞ot/ adj. without the basic necessities of life. ""the charity cares for destitute children"" synonyms: penniless, poor, impoverished, poverty-stricken, impecunious, without a cent/penny (to one's name)"
relish	"/ˈreliSH/ v. enjoy greatly. synonyms: enjoy, delight in, love, adore, take pleasure in, rejoice in, appreciate, savor, revel in, luxuriate in, glory in ""she was relishing her moment of glory"""
penalize	"/ˈpēn(ə)lˌīz/ v. subject to some form of punishment. ""you'll be penalized if you tap the account before age 59"" synonyms: punish, discipline, inflict a penalty on ""if you break the rules you will be penalized""   v. put in an unfavorable position or at an unfair disadvantage. ""if the bill is not amended, genuine claimants will be penalized"" synonyms: handicap, disadvantage, put at a disadvantage, cause to suffer ""people with certain medical conditions would be penalized"""
telltale	"/ˈtelˌtāl/ adj. revealing, indicating, or betraying something. ""the telltale bulge of a concealed weapon"" synonyms: revealing, revelatory, suggestive, meaningful, significant, meaning ""the telltale blush on her face""   n. a person, especially a child, who reports others' wrongdoings or reveals their secrets."
veneer	/vəˈnir/ n.  thin decorative covering of fine wood applied to a coarser wood or other material.   v. cover (something) with a decorative layer of fine wood.
complementary	"/ˌkämpləˈment(ə)rē/ adj. combining in such a way as to enhance or emphasize the qualities of each other or another. ""three guitarists playing interlocking, complementary parts"" synonyms: harmonious, compatible, corresponding, matching, twin"
stem	"/stem/ v. originate in or be caused by. ""many of the universities' problems stem from rapid expansion"" synonyms: have its origins in, arise from, originate from, spring from, derive from, come from, emanate from, flow from, proceed from"
involuntary	"/inˈvälənˌterē/ adj. done without will or conscious control. ""she gave an involuntary shudder"" synonyms: spontaneous, instinctive, unconscious, unintentional, uncontrollable   adj. done against someone's will; compulsory. ""a policy of involuntary repatriation"""
unsettle	"/ˌənˈsedl/ v. cause to feel anxious or uneasy; disturb. ""the crisis has unsettled financial markets"" synonyms: unnerve, upset, disturb, disquiet, perturb, discomfit, disconcert, alarm, dismay, trouble, bother, agitate, fluster, ruffle, shake (up), throw, unbalance, destabilize"
affidavit	/ˌafəˈdāvit/ n. a written statement confirmed by oath or affirmation, for use as evidence in court.
strangle	"/ˈstraNGɡəl/ v. squeeze or constrict the neck of (a person or animal), especially so as to cause death. ""the victim was strangled with a scarf"" synonyms: throttle, choke, garrote   v. hamper or hinder the development or activity of. ""overrestrictive policies that strangle growth"" synonyms: hamper, hinder, impede, restrict, inhibit, curb, check, constrain, squash, crush, suppress, repress ""bureaucracy is strangling commercial activity"""
hue	"/(h)yo͞o/ n. a color or shade. ""her face lost its golden hue"" synonyms: color, shade, tone, tint, tinge ""a lovely hue of lilac""   n. character; aspect. ""men of all political hues submerged their feuds"""
aptitude	"/ˈaptəˌt(y)o͞od/ n. a natural ability to do something. ""he had a remarkable aptitude for learning words""   n. a natural tendency. ""his natural aptitude for failure"" synonyms: talent, gift, flair, bent, skill, knack, facility, ability, proficiency, capability, potential, capacity, faculty, genius ""an aptitude for higher mathematics"""
endow	"/inˈdou/  v. give or bequeath an income or property to (a person or institution). ""he endowed the church with lands""   v. establish (a college post, annual prize, or project) by donating the funds needed to maintain it. synonyms: finance, fund, pay for, donate money for, give money toward, provide capital for, subsidize, support financially   v. provide with a quality, ability, or asset. ""he was endowed with tremendous physical strength"" synonyms: provide, supply, furnish, equip, invest, give, present, favor, bless, grace, award, gift, confer, bestow, enrich, arm ""nature endowed the human race with intelligence"""
court	"/kôrt/ v. be involved with romantically, typically with the intention of marrying. ""he was courting a girl from the neighboring farm"" synonyms: go out with, pursue, run after, chase   v. pay special attention to (someone) in an attempt to win their support or favor. ""Western politicians courted the leaders of the newly independent states"" synonyms: curry favor with, cultivate, try to win over, make up to, ingratiate oneself with"
fierce	"/firs/ adj. having or displaying an intense or ferocious aggressiveness. ""the fierce air battles that ensued over the Pacific"" synonyms: ferocious, savage, vicious, aggressive antonyms: gentle, mild"
olfactory	"/ōlˈfakt(ə)rē/ adj. relating to the sense of smell. ""the olfactory organs"""
ensue	"/inˈso͞o/ v. happen or occur afterward or as a result. ""the difficulties that ensued from their commitment to Cuba"" synonyms: result, follow, develop, proceed, succeed, emerge, stem, arise, derive, issue"
brigand	/ˈbriɡənd/ n. a member of a gang that ambushes and robs people in forests and mountains.
indignant	"/inˈdiɡnənt/ adj. feeling or showing anger or annoyance at what is perceived as unfair treatment. ""he was indignant at being the object of suspicion"" synonyms: aggrieved, resentful, affronted, disgruntled, displeased, cross, angry, mad, annoyed, offended, exasperated, irritated, piqued, nettled, in high dudgeon, chagrined"
swerve	"/swərv/ v. change or cause to change direction abruptly. ""a car swerved around a corner"" synonyms: veer, deviate, skew, diverge, sheer, weave, zigzag, change direction; tack ""a car swerved into her path"""
sanctimonious	"/ˌsaNG(k)təˈmōnēəs/ adj. making a show of being morally superior to other people. ""what happened to all the sanctimonious talk about putting his family first?"" synonyms: self-righteous, holier-than-thou, pious, pietistic, churchy, moralizing, preachy, smug, superior, priggish, hypocritical, insincere ""no one wants to hear your sanctimonious hot air"""
holier-than-thou	"/ˌhōlēərT͟HənˈT͟Hou/ adj. characterized by an attitude of moral superiority. ""they had quite a critical, holier-than-thou approach"" synonyms: sanctimonious, self-righteous, smug, self-satisfied"
sanctity	"/ˈsaNG(k)tədē/ n. the state or quality of being holy, sacred, or saintly. ""the site of the tomb was a place of sanctity for the ancient Egyptians"" synonyms: holiness, godliness, blessedness, saintliness, spirituality, piety, piousness, devoutness, righteousness, goodness, virtue, purity ""the sanctity of St. Francis"""
stolid	/ˈstäləd/ adj. (of a person) calm, dependable, and showing little emotion or animation. synonyms: impassive, phlegmatic, unemotional, cool, calm, placid, unexcitable
unconscionable	"/ˌənˈkänSH(ə)nəbəl/ adj. not right or reasonable. ""the unconscionable conduct of his son"" synonyms: unethical, amoral, immoral, unprincipled, indefensible, unforgivable, wrong"
charlatan	/ˈSHärlədən/ n. a person falsely claiming to have a special knowledge or skill; a fraud. synonyms: quack, sham, fraud, fake, impostor, hoaxer, cheat, deceiver, double-dealer, swindler, fraudster, mountebank
agglomeration	"/əˌɡläməˈrāSH(ə)n/ n. a mass or collection of things; an assemblage. ""the arts center is an agglomeration of theaters, galleries, shops, restaurants, and bars"""
interloper	/ˈin(t)ərˌlōpər/ n. a person who becomes involved in a place or situation where they are not wanted or are considered not to belong. synonyms: intruder, encroacher, trespasser, invader, infiltrator
masquerade	"/ˌmaskəˈrād/ n. a false show or pretense. ""his masquerade ended when he was arrested"" synonyms: pretense, deception, pose, act, front, facade, disguise, dissimulation, bluff, play-acting, make-believe ""he couldn't keep up the masquerade much longer""   v. pretend to be someone one is not. ""a journalist masquerading as a man in distress"" synonyms: pretend to be, pose as, pass oneself off as, impersonate, disguise oneself as ""a woman masquerading as a man"""
complication	"/ˌkämpləˈkāSH(ə)n/ n. a circumstance that complicates something; a difficulty. ""there is a complication concerning ownership of the site"" synonyms: difficulty, problem, obstacle, hurdle, stumbling block"
dredge	"/drej/ v. clean out the bed of (a harbor, river, or other area of water) by scooping out mud, weeds, and rubbish with a dredge.   v. bring to people's attention an unpleasant or embarrassing fact or incident that had been forgotten. ""I don't understand why you had to dredge up this story"""
ferret	"/ˈferət/ v. look around in a place or container in search of something. ""he went to the desk and ferreted around"" synonyms: rummage, feel around, grope around, forage around, fish around/about, poke around/about"
mountebank	/ˈmoun(t)əˌbaNGk/ n. a person who deceives others, especially in order to trick them out of their money; a charlatan. synonyms: swindler, charlatan, confidence trickster, fraud, fraudster, impostor, trickster, hoaxer
harlequin	"/ˈhärləkwən/ n. a mute character in traditional pantomime, typically masked and dressed in a diamond-patterned costume. synonyms: jester, joker, merry andrew ""the gaily garbed harlequins of his court""   adj. in varied colors; variegated. synonyms: multicolored, many-colored, colorful, parti-colored, varicolored, many-hued, rainbow, variegated, jazzy, kaleidoscopic, psychedelic, polychromatic, checkered ""a harlequin pattern"""
bamboozle	"/bamˈbo͞ozəl/ v. fool or cheat (someone). ""Tom Sawyer bamboozled the neighborhood boys into doing it for him""   v. confound or perplex. ""bamboozled by the number of savings plans being offered"""
hoodwink	"/ˈho͝odˌwiNGk/ v. deceive or trick (someone). ""an attempt to hoodwink the public"" synonyms: deceive, trick, dupe, outwit, fool, delude, inveigle, cheat, take in, hoax, mislead, lead on, defraud, double-cross, swindle, gull, scam"
ablaze	"/əˈblāz/ adj. burning fiercely. ""his clothes were ablaze"" synonyms: on fire, alight, aflame, in flames, flaming, burning, fiery, blazing"
brusque	"/brəsk/ adj. abrupt or offhand in speech or manner. ""she could be brusque and impatient"" synonyms: curt, abrupt, blunt, short, sharp, terse, peremptory, gruff"
bluntly	"/ˈbləntlē/ adv. in an uncompromisingly forthright way. ""a colleague bluntly told him that he had no business asking for the status report"""
wax	"/waks/ v. (of the moon between new and full) have a progressively larger part of its visible surface illuminated, increasing its apparent size. synonyms: get bigger, increase, enlarge ""the moon is waxing"" antonyms: wane   v. begin to speak or write about something in the specified manner. ""they waxed lyrical about the old days"""
glum	"/ɡləm/ adj. looking or feeling dejected; morose. ""they looked glum but later cheered up"" synonyms: gloomy, downcast, downhearted, dejected, despondent, crestfallen, disheartened"
tawdry	"/ˈtôdrē/ adj. showy but cheap and of poor quality. ""tawdry jewelry"" synonyms: gaudy, flashy, showy, garish, loud"
rile	"/rīl/ v. make (someone) annoyed or irritated. ""it was his air of knowing all the answers that riled her"""
canteen	"/kanˈtēn/ n. a restaurant provided by an organization such as a military camp, college, factory, or company for its soldiers, students, staff, etc. synonyms: restaurant, cafeteria, refectory, lunchroom, mess hall ""the staff canteen"""
tact	"/takt/ n. adroitness and sensitivity in dealing with others or with difficult issues. ""the inspector broke the news to me with tact and consideration"" synonyms: diplomacy, tactfulness, sensitivity, understanding, thoughtfulness, consideration, delicacy, discretion, prudence, judiciousness, subtlety, savoir faire ""Dr. Porter has a lot to learn about timing and tact"""
humongous	"/hyo͞oˈməNGɡəs/ adj. huge; enormous. ""a humongous steak"""
eke	"/ēk/ v. manage to support oneself or make a living with difficulty. ""they eked out their livelihoods from the soil""   v. make an amount or supply of something last longer by using or consuming it frugally. ""the remains of yesterday's stew could be eked out to make another meal"" synonyms: husband, use sparingly, be thrifty with, be frugal with, be sparing with, use economically ""I had to eke out my remaining funds"""
scrape	"/skrāp/ v. push or pull a hard or sharp implement across (a surface or object) so as to remove dirt or other matter. ""rinse off the carrots and scrape them"" synonyms: rake, drag, pull, tug, draw ""she scraped her hair back behind her ears""   v. rub or cause to rub by accident against a rough or hard surface, causing damage or injury. ""he smashed into the wall and felt his knee scrape against the plaster"" synonyms: graze, scratch, abrade, scuff, rasp, skin, rub raw, cut, lacerate, bark, chafe; excoriate ""Ellen had scraped her shins on the wall"""
inkling	"/ˈiNGkliNG/ n. a slight knowledge or suspicion; a hint. ""the records give us an inkling of how people saw the world"" synonyms: idea, notion, sense, impression, conception, suggestion, indication, whisper, glimmer"
foolhardy	"/ˈfo͞olˌhärdē/ adj. recklessly bold or rash. ""it would be foolhardy to go into the scheme without support"" synonyms: reckless, rash, irresponsible, impulsive, hotheaded, impetuous, bullheaded, daredevil, devil-may-care, madcap, harebrained, precipitate, hasty, overhasty ""their foolhardy plans"""
illicit	"/i(l)ˈlisit/ adj. forbidden by law, rules, or custom. ""illicit drugs"" synonyms: illegal, unlawful, illegitimate, criminal, felonious"
stipend	/ˈstīˌpend/ n. a fixed regular sum paid as a salary or allowance.
buck	"/bək/ v. oppose or resist (something that seems oppressive or inevitable). ""the shares bucked the market trend"" synonyms: resist, oppose, defy, fight, kick against ""it takes guts to buck the system"""
downturn	"/ˈdounˌtərn/ n. a decline in economic, business, or other activity. ""a downturn in the housing market""   v. turn (something) downward. ""his downturned mouth"""
acme	"/ˈakmē/ n. the point at which someone or something is best, perfect, or most successful. ""physics is the acme of scientific knowledge"" synonyms: peak, pinnacle, zenith, height, high point, crown, crest, summit, top, apex, apogee"
err	"/er/ v. be mistaken or incorrect; make a mistake. ""the judge had erred in ruling that the evidence was inadmissible"" synonyms: make a mistake, be wrong, be in error, be mistaken, blunder, fumble, be incorrect, miscalculate, get it wrong   v. sin; do wrong. ""the erring brother who had wrecked his life"""
brittle	"/ˈbridl/ adj. hard but liable to break or shatter easily. ""her bones became fragile and brittle"" synonyms: breakable, fragile, delicate"
besmirch	"/bəˈsmərCH/ v. damage the reputation of (someone or something) in the opinion of others. ""he had besmirched the good name of his family"" synonyms: sully, tarnish, blacken, drag through the mud/mire, stain, taint, smear, disgrace, dishonor, bring discredit to, damage, debase, ruin"
besiege	"/bəˈsēj/ v. surround (a place) with armed forces in order to capture it or force its surrender; lay siege to. ""the guerrillas continued to besiege other major cities to the north"" synonyms: lay siege to, beleaguer, blockade, surround ""the Romans besieged Carthage""   v. crowd around oppressively; surround and harass. ""she spent the whole day besieged by newsmen"" synonyms: surround, mob, crowd around, swarm around, throng around, encircle"
plunder	"/ˈpləndər/ v. steal goods from (a place or person), typically using force and in a time of war or civil disorder. ""looters moved into the disaster area to plunder stores"" synonyms: pillage, loot, rob, raid, ransack, despoil, strip, ravage, lay waste, devastate, sack, rape ""they plundered the countryside""   n. the violent and dishonest acquisition of property. ""the farmers suffered the inhumanity and indignities of pillage and plunder"" synonyms: looting, pillaging, plundering, raiding, ransacking, devastation, sacking ""the plunder of the villages"""
adamant	"/ˈadəmənt/ adj. refusing to be persuaded or to change one's mind. ""he is adamant that he is not going to resign"" synonyms: unshakable, immovable, inflexible, unwavering, unswerving, uncompromising, insistent, resolute, resolved, determined, firm, steadfast"
acquiescence	"/ˌakwēˈesəns/ n. the reluctant acceptance of something without protest. ""in silent acquiescence, she rose to her feet"" synonyms: accept, consent to, agree to, allow, concede, assent to, concur with, give the nod to"
verisimilitude	"/ˌvərəsəˈmiləˌt(y)o͞od/ n. the appearance of being true or real. ""the detail gives the novel some verisimilitude"" synonyms: realism, believability, plausibility, authenticity, credibility, lifelikeness ""the verisimilitude of her performance is gripping"""
vainglorious	"/ˌvānˈɡlôrēəs/ adj. excessively proud of oneself or one's achievements; overly vain. ""this vainglorious boast of personal infallibility"""
unassuming	"/ˌənəˈso͞omiNG/ adj. not pretentious or arrogant; modest. ""he was an unassuming and kindly man"" synonyms: modest, self-effacing, humble, meek, bashful, reserved, diffident"
tumult	"/ˈt(y)o͞oˌməlt/ n. a loud, confused noise, especially one caused by a large mass of people. ""a tumult of shouting and screaming broke out"" synonyms: clamor, din, noise, racket, uproar, hue and cry, commotion, ruckus, maelstrom, rumpus, hubbub, pandemonium, babel, bedlam, brouhaha, furor, fracas, melee, frenzy ""she added her voice to the tumult""   n. confusion or disorder. ""the whole neighborhood was in a state of fear and tumult"" synonyms: turmoil, confusion, disorder, disarray, unrest, chaos, turbulence, mayhem, maelstrom, havoc, upheaval, ferment, agitation, trouble ""years of political tumult"""
supercilious	"/ˌso͞opərˈsilēəs/ adj. behaving or looking as though one thinks one is superior to others. ""a supercilious lady's maid"" synonyms: arrogant, haughty, conceited, disdainful, overbearing, pompous, condescending, superior, patronizing, imperious, proud, snobbish, snobby, smug, scornful, sneering"
stark	"/stärk/ adj. severe or bare in appearance or outline. ""the ridge formed a stark silhouette against the sky"" synonyms: sharp, sharply defined, well focused, crisp, distinct, obvious, evident, clear, clear-cut, graphic, striking"
scintillate	/ˈsin(t)lˌāt/ v. emit flashes of light; sparkle.
redeem	"/rəˈdēm/  v. compensate for the faults or bad aspects of (something). ""a disappointing debate redeemed only by an outstanding speech"" synonyms: save, compensate for the defects of, vindicate   v. gain or regain possession of (something) in exchange for payment. ""his best suit had been redeemed from the pawnbrokers"" synonyms: retrieve, regain, recover, get back, reclaim, repossess; buy back ""Billy redeemed his drums from the pawnbrokers"""
proxy	"/ˈpräksē/ n. the authority to represent someone else, especially in voting. ""they may register to vote by proxy"" synonyms: deputy, representative, substitute, delegate, agent, surrogate, stand-in, attorney, go-between ""I am here to vote as Mrs. Carlson's proxy"""
compendious	"/kəmˈpendēəs/ adj. containing or presenting the essential facts of something in a comprehensive but concise way. ""a compendious study"" synonyms:succinct, pithy, short and to the point, short and sweet, potted, thumbnail, brief, crisp, compact, concise, condensed, shortened, contracted, compressed, abridged, abbreviated, summarized, summary, abstracted ""a compendious essay on Italian music"""
parley	"/ˈpärlē/ n. a conference between opposing sides in a dispute, especially a discussion of terms for an armistice. synonyms: negotiation, talk(s), conference, summit, discussion, powwow   v. hold a conference with the opposing side to discuss terms. ""they disagreed over whether to parley with the enemy"" synonyms: discuss terms, talk, hold talks, negotiate, deliberate ""the two parties were willing to parley"""
obliterate	"/əˈblidəˌrāt/ v. destroy utterly; wipe out. ""the memory was so painful that he obliterated it from his mind"" synonyms: destroy, wipe out, annihilate, demolish, eliminate, decimate, liquidate, wipe off the face of the earth, wipe off the map   v. cause to become invisible or indistinct; blot out. ""clouds were darkening, obliterating the sun"" synonyms: erase, eradicate, expunge, efface, wipe out, blot out, rub out, block out, remove all traces of"
nettle	"/ˈnedl/ v. irritate or annoy (someone). ""I was nettled by Alene's tone of superiority"" synonyms: irritate, annoy, irk, gall, vex, anger, exasperate, infuriate, provoke"
nefarious	"/nəˈferēəs/ adj. (typically of an action or activity) wicked or criminal. ""the nefarious activities of the organized-crime syndicates"" synonyms: wicked, evil, sinful, iniquitous, egregious, heinous, atrocious, vile, foul, abominable, odious, depraved, monstrous, fiendish, diabolical, unspeakable, despicable"
mortify	"/ˈmôrdəˌfī/ v. cause (someone) to feel embarrassed, ashamed, or humiliated. ""she was mortified to see her wrinkles in the mirror"" synonyms: embarrass, humiliate, chagrin, discomfit, shame, abash, horrify, appall ""I'd be mortified if my friends found out""   v. subdue (the body or its needs and desires) by self-denial or discipline. ""return to heaven by mortifying the flesh"" synonyms: subdue, suppress, subjugate, control"
moribund	"/ˈmôrəˌbənd/ adj. (of a person) at the point of death. synonyms: dying, expiring, terminal, on one's deathbed, near death, at death's door, not long for this world ""the patient was moribund"""
monolithic	"/ˌmänəˈliTHik/ adj. (of an organization or system) large, powerful, and intractably indivisible and uniform. ""rejecting any move toward a monolithic European superstate"" synonyms: inflexible, rigid, unbending, unchanging, fossilized ""a monolithic organization"""
minuscule	"/ˈminəˌskyo͞ol/ adj. extremely small; tiny. ""a minuscule fragment of DNA"" synonyms: tiny, minute, microscopic, nanoscale, very small, little, micro, diminutive, miniature, baby, dwarf, Lilliputian"
malpractice	"/malˈpraktəs/ n. improper, illegal, or negligent professional activity or treatment, especially by a medical practitioner, lawyer, or public official. ""victims of medical malpractice"" synonyms: wrongdoing, (professional) misconduct, breach of ethics, unprofessionalism, unethical behavior"
malinger	/məˈliNGɡər/ v. exaggerate or feign illness in order to escape duty or work. synonyms: pretend to be ill, feign (an) illness, fake (an) illness
wheedle	"/ˈ(h)wēdl/ v. employ endearments or flattery to persuade someone to do something or give one something. ""you can contrive to wheedle your way onto a court"" synonyms: coax, cajole, inveigle, induce, entice, charm, tempt, beguile, blandish, flatter, persuade, influence, win someone over, bring someone around, convince, prevail on, get around"
cajole	"/kəˈjōl/ v. persuade someone to do something by sustained coaxing or flattery. ""he hoped to cajole her into selling the house"" synonyms: persuade, wheedle, coax, talk into, prevail on, sweet-talk, butter up, soft-soap, seduce, inveigle ""I hate it when he cajoles me to go out with his friends"""
intimate	"/ˈin(t)əmət/ adj. closely acquainted; familiar, close. ""intimate friends"" synonyms: close, bosom, dear, cherished, faithful, devoted, fast, firm, familiar ""an intimate friend of Picasso's""   adj. private and personal. ""going into intimate details of his sexual encounters"" synonyms: personal, private, confidential, secret"
cognate	"/ˈkäɡˌnāt/ adj. related; connected. ""cognate subjects such as physics and chemistry"" synonyms: associated, related, connected, allied, linked"
indubitable	"/inˈd(y)o͞obədəb(ə)l/ adj. impossible to doubt; unquestionable. ""an indubitable truth"" synonyms: unquestionable, undoubtable, indisputable, unarguable, undebatable, incontestable, undeniable, irrefutable, incontrovertible, unmistakable, unequivocal, certain, sure, positive, definite, absolute, conclusive, watertight, ironclad"
incense	"/inˈsens/ v. make (someone) very angry. ""she was incensed by the accusations"""
repulse	"/rəˈpəls/ v. drive back (an attack or attacking enemy) by force. ""rioters tried to storm ministry buildings but were repulsed by police"" synonyms: repel, drive back/away, fight back/off, put to flight, force back, beat off/back   v. cause (someone) to feel intense distaste and aversion. ""audiences at early screenings of the film were repulsed by its brutality"" synonyms: revolt, disgust, repel, sicken, nauseate, turn someone's stomach, be repugnant to"
expulsion	"/ikˈspəlSHən/ n. the action of depriving someone of membership in an organization. ""expulsion from school"" synonyms: removal, debarment, dismissal, exclusion, discharge, ejection, drumming out ""expulsion from the party"""
compulsion	"/kəmˈpəlSHən/ n. the action or state of forcing or being forced to do something; constraint. ""the payment was made under compulsion"" synonyms: obligation, constraint, coercion, duress, pressure, intimidation ""he is under no compulsion to go""   n. an irresistible urge to behave in a certain way, especially against one's conscious wishes. ""he felt a compulsion to babble on about what had happened"" synonyms: urge, impulse, need, desire, drive"
histrionic	"/ˌhistrēˈänik/ adj. overly theatrical or melodramatic in character or style. ""a histrionic outburst"" synonyms: melodramatic, theatrical, dramatic, exaggerated, stagy, actorly, showy, affected, artificial, overacted, overdone"
hidebound	"/ˈhīdˌbound/ adj. unwilling or unable to change because of tradition or convention. ""you are hidebound by your petty laws"" synonyms: conservative, reactionary, conventional, orthodox"
somber	"/ˈsämbər/ adj. dark or dull in color or tone; gloomy. ""the night skies were somber and starless"" synonyms: dark, drab, dull, dingy   adj. oppressively solemn or sober in mood; grave. ""he looked at her with a somber expression"" synonyms: solemn, earnest, serious, grave, sober, unsmiling, stern, grim, dour, humorles"
pliable	"/ˈplīəb(ə)l/ adj. easily bent; flexible. ""quality leather is pliable and will not crack"" synonyms: flexible, pliant, bendable, elastic, supple, malleable, workable, plastic, springy, ductile   adj. easily influenced. ""pliable teenage minds"" synonyms: malleable, impressionable, flexible, adaptable, pliant, compliant, biddable, tractable, yielding, amenable, susceptible, suggestible, persuadable, manipulable, receptive"
attire	"/əˈtī(ə)r/ n. clothes, especially fine or formal ones. ""holiday attire"" synonyms: clothing, clothes, garments, dress, wear, outfits, garb, costume   v. be dressed in clothes of a specified kind. ""Donna was attired in an elaborate evening gown"" synonyms: dress, dress up, clothe, garb, robe, array, costume, swathe, deck, deck out, turn out, fit out, trick out"
smattering	"/ˈsmadəriNG/ n. a slight superficial knowledge of a language or subject. ""Edward had only a smattering of Spanish""   n. a small amount of something. ""a smattering of snow"" synonyms: bit, modicum, touch, soupçon"
enmity	"/ˈenmədē/ n. the state or feeling of being actively opposed or hostile to someone or something. ""enmity between Protestants and Catholics"" synonyms: hostility, animosity, antagonism, friction, antipathy, animus, acrimony, bitterness, rancor, resentment, aversion, ill feeling, bad feeling, ill will, bad blood, hatred, hate, loathing, odium"
ingenuity	/ˌinjəˈn(y)o͞oədē/ n. the quality of being clever, original, and inventive. synonyms: inventiveness, creativity, imagination, innovation, enterprise, insight, perception, perceptiveness, intuition, inspiration
enumerate	"/əˈn(y)o͞oməˌrāt/ v. mention (a number of things) one by one. ""there is not space to enumerate all his works"" synonyms: list, itemize, set out, give   v. establish the number of. ""the 2000 census enumerated 10,493 households in the county"" synonyms: calculate, compute, count, add up, tally, total, number, quantify"
fretful	"/ˈfretfəl/ adj. feeling or expressing distress or irritation. ""the baby was crying with a fretful whimper"" synonyms: distressed, upset, miserable, unsettled, uneasy, ill at ease, uncomfortable, edgy, agitated, worked up, tense, stressed, restive, fidgety, antsy"
erratic	"/əˈradik/ adj. not even or regular in pattern or movement; unpredictable. ""her breathing was erratic"" synonyms: unpredictable, inconsistent, changeable, variable, inconstant, irregular, fitful, unstable, turbulent, unsettled, changing, varying, fluctuating, mutable"
vicarious	"/vəˈkerēəs/ adj. experienced in the imagination through the feelings or actions of another person. ""I could glean vicarious pleasure from the struggles of my imaginary film friends"" synonyms: indirect, secondhand, secondary, derivative, derived, surrogate, substitute"
disproportionate	"/ˌdisprəˈpôrSH(ə)nət/ adj. too large or too small in comparison with something else. ""people on lower incomes spend a disproportionate amount of their income on fuel"" synonyms: out of proportion to, not appropriate to, inappropriate to, not commensurate with, incommensurate with, relatively too large/small for"
shudder	"/ˈSHədər/ v. (of a person) tremble convulsively, typically as a result of fear or revulsion. ""I shuddered with horror"" synonyms: shake, shiver, tremble, quiver, vibrate, palpitate ""she shuddered at the thought"""
submerge	"/səbˈmərj/ v. cause to be under water. ""houses had been flooded and cars submerged"" synonyms: flood, inundate, deluge, swamp ""the farmland was submerged""   v. descend below the surface of an area of water. ""the U-boat had had time to submerge"" synonyms: go under water, dive, sink ""the U-boat submerged""   v. completely cover or obscure. ""the tensions submerged earlier in the campaign now came to the fore"" synonyms: immerse, plunge, sink ""submerge the bowl in water"""
ingratiating	"/inˈɡrāSHēˌādiNG/ adj. intended to gain approval or favor; sycophantic. ""an ingratiating manner"" synonyms: sycophantic, toadying, fawning, unctuous, obsequious"
parish	"/ˈperiSH/ n. (in the Christian Church) a small administrative district typically having its own church and a priest or pastor. ""a parish church"" synonyms: parishioners, churchgoers, congregation, fold, flock, community ""the story scandalized the parish"""
differentiate	"/ˌdifəˈren(t)SHēˌāt/ v. recognize or ascertain what makes (someone or something) different. ""children can differentiate the past from the present"""
quip	"/kwip/ n. a witty remark. synonyms: joke, witty remark, witticism, jest, pun, bon mot, sally, pleasantry   v. make a witty remark. ""“Flattery will get you nowhere,” she quipped"" synonyms: joke, jest, pun, sally ""“I think he got the point,” quipped Sean"""
menial	"/ˈmēnēəl/ adj. (of work) not requiring much skill and lacking prestige. ""menial factory jobs"" synonyms: unskilled, lowly, humble, low-status, inferior, degrading"
embellish	"/əmˈbeliSH/ v. make (something) more attractive by the addition of decorative details or features. ""blue silk embellished with golden embroidery"" synonyms: decorate, adorn, ornament   v. make (a statement or story) more interesting or entertaining by adding extra details, especially ones that are not true. ""she had real difficulty telling the truth because she liked to embellish things"" synonyms: elaborate, embroider, expand on, exaggerate ""the legend was embellished in later retellings"""
resignation	"/ˌrezəɡˈnāSH(ə)n/ n. an act of retiring or giving up a position. ""he announced his resignation"" synonyms: departure, leaving, standing down, stepping down   n. the acceptance of something undesirable but inevitable. ""a shrug of resignation"" synonyms: patience, forbearance, stoicism, fortitude, fatalism, acceptance, acquiescence, compliance, passivity ""he accepted his fate with resignation"""
agitate	"/ˈajəˌtāt/ v. make (someone) troubled or nervous. ""the thought of questioning Toby agitated him extremely"" synonyms: upset, perturb, fluster, ruffle, disconcert, unnerve, disquiet, disturb, distress, unsettle, unhinge   v. stir or disturb (something, especially a liquid) briskly. ""agitate the water to disperse the oil"" synonyms: stir, whisk, churn, beat ""agitate the water to disperse the oil"""
forlorn	"/fərˈlôrn/ adj. pitifully sad and abandoned or lonely. ""forlorn figures at bus stops"" synonyms: unhappy, sad, miserable, sorrowful, dejected, despondent, disconsolate, wretched, abject, down, downcast, dispirited, downhearted, crestfallen, depressed, melancholy, gloomy, glum, mournful, despairing, doleful, woebegone   adj. (of an aim or endeavor) unlikely to succeed or be fulfilled; hopeless. ""a forlorn attempt to escape"" synonyms: hopeless, vain, with no chance of success"
guffaw	"/ɡəˈfô/ v. laugh in a loud or boisterous way. ""both men guffawed at the remark"" synonyms: laugh heartily, laugh loudly, roar with laughter, roar, bellow, cackle ""he guffawed at his own punch line"""
pundit	"/ˈpəndət/ n. an expert in a particular subject or field who is frequently called on to give opinions about it to the public. ""a globe-trotting financial pundit"" synonyms: expert, authority, specialist, doyen(ne), master, guru, sage, savant, maven"
flounder	"/ˈfloundər/ v. struggle or stagger helplessly or clumsily in water or mud. ""he was floundering about in the shallow offshore waters"" synonyms: struggle, thrash, flail, twist and turn, splash, stagger, stumble, reel, lurch, blunder, squirm, writhe ""people were floundering in the water""   v. struggle mentally; show or feel great confusion. ""she floundered, not knowing quite what to say"" synonyms: struggle, be out of one's depth, have difficulty, be confounded, be confused"
inarticulate	"/ˌinärˈtikyələt/ adj. unable to speak distinctly or express oneself clearly. ""he was inarticulate with abashment and regret"" synonyms: tongue-tied, lost for words, unable to express oneself ""an inarticulate young man"""
malodorous	/malˈōdərəs/ adj. smelling very unpleasant. synonyms: foul-smelling, evil-smelling, fetid, smelly, stinking (to high heaven), reeking, rank, high, putrid, noxious
commendable	"/kəˈmendəb(ə)l/ adj. deserving praise. ""commendable restraint"" synonyms: admirable, praiseworthy, creditable, laudable, estimable, meritorious, exemplary, noteworthy, honorable, respectable, fine, excellent ""he tackled the tests with commendable zeal"""
insolvent	"/inˈsälvənt/ adj. unable to pay debts owed. ""the company became insolvent"" synonyms: bankrupt, ruined, wiped out, in receivership"
inadvertent	"/ˌinədˈvərtnt/ adj. not resulting from or achieved through deliberate planning. ""an inadvertent administrative error occurred that resulted in an overpayment"" synonyms: unintentional, unintended, accidental, unpremeditated, unplanned, innocent, uncalculated, unconscious, unthinking, unwitting, involuntary"
resolve	"/rəˈzälv/ v. settle or find a solution to (a problem, dispute, or contentious matter). ""the firm aims to resolve problems within 30 days"" synonyms: settle, sort out, solve, find a solution to, fix, straighten out, deal with, put right, put to rights, rectify   v. decide firmly on a course of action. ""she resolved to call Dana as soon as she got home"" synonyms: determine, decide, make up one's mind, make a decision ""Bob resolved not to wait any longer"""
fleck	"/flek/ n. a very small patch of color or light. ""his blue eyes had gray flecks in them"" synonyms: spot, mark, dot, speck, speckle, freckle, patch, smudge, streak, blotch, dab   v. mark or dot with small patches of color or particles of something. ""the minarets are flecked with gold leaf"" synonyms: spot, mark, dot, speckle, bespeckle, freckle, stipple, stud, bestud, blotch, mottle, streak, splash, spatter, bespatter, scatter, sprinkle ""the deer's flanks were flecked with white"""
miscreant	"/ˈmiskrēənt/ n. a person who behaves badly or in a way that breaks the law. synonyms: criminal, culprit, wrongdoer, malefactor, offender, villain, lawbreaker, evildoer, delinquent, hoodlum, reprobate; malfeasant ""the South Street playground has been taken over by a pack of drug-dealing miscreants"""
plodding	"/ˈplädiNG/ adj. slow-moving and unexciting. ""a plodding comedy drama"""
fête	"/fāt/ v. honor or entertain (someone) lavishly. ""she was an instant celebrity, fêted by the media"""
grovel	"/ˈɡrəvəl/ v. lie or move abjectly on the ground with one's face downward. ""she was groveling on the floor in fear"" synonyms: prostrate oneself, lie, kneel, cringe ""George groveled at his feet, begging for mercy""   v. act in an obsequious manner in order to obtain someone's forgiveness or favor. ""everyone expected me to grovel with gratitude"" synonyms: be obsequious to, fawn on, kowtow to, bow and scrape to, toady to, truckle to, abase oneself to, humble oneself to"
hamstring	"/ˈhamˌstriNG/ v. severely restrict the efficiency or effectiveness of. ""we were hamstrung by a total lack of knowledge"""
carping	"/ˈkärpiNG/ adj. difficult to please; critical. ""she has silenced the carping critics with a successful debut tour"""
laborious	"/ləˈbôrēəs/ adj. (especially of a task, process, or journey) requiring considerable effort and time. ""years of laborious training"" synonyms: arduous, hard, heavy, difficult, strenuous, grueling, punishing, exacting, tough, onerous, burdensome, back-breaking, labor-intensive, trying, challenging"
tedious	"/ˈtēdēəs/ adj. too long, slow, or dull: tiresome or monotonous. ""a tedious journey"" synonyms: boring, dull, monotonous, repetitive, unrelieved, unvaried, uneventful"
telling	"/ˈteliNG/ adj. having a striking or revealing effect; significant. ""a telling argument against this theory"" synonyms: revealing, significant, weighty, important, meaningful, influential, striking, potent, powerful, compelling ""a telling critique of the military mind"""
flush	"/fləSH/ v. (of a person's skin or face) become red and hot, typically as the result of illness or strong emotion. ""Mr. Cunningham flushed angrily"" synonyms: blush, redden, go pink, go red, go crimson, go scarlet, color (up)   v. cleanse (something, especially a toilet) by causing large quantities of water to pass through it. ""the nurse flushed out the catheter""   v. remove or dispose of (an object or substance) by flushing. ""I flushed the pills down the toilet"" synonyms: rinse (out), wash (out/down), sluice, swill, cleanse, clean, hose (down), swab ""fruit helps to flush toxins from the body"""
fret	"/fret/ v. be constantly or visibly worried or anxious. ""she fretted about the cost of groceries"" synonyms: worry, be anxious, feel uneasy, be distressed, be upset, upset oneself, concern oneself"
inclement	/inˈklemənt/ adj. (of the weather) unpleasantly cold or wet. synonyms: cold, chilly, bleak, wintry, freezing, snowy, icy
retiring	"/rəˈtī(ə)riNG/ adj. shy and fond of being on one's own. ""you have to be fairly resilient and not too much of a shy retiring type"""
dispatch	"/dəˈspaCH/ v. send off to a destination or for a purpose. ""he dispatched messages back to base"" synonyms: send (off), post, mail, forward, transmit, email ""all the messages were dispatched""   v. deal with (a task, problem, or opponent) quickly and efficiently. ""they dispatched the opposition"" synonyms: deal with, finish, conclude, settle, discharge, perform"
underwrite	/ˈəndə(r)ˌrīt/ v. sign and accept liability under (an insurance policy), thus guaranteeing payment in case loss or damage occurs.   v. (of a bank or other financial institution) pledge to buy all the unsold shares in (an issue of new securities).
demure	"/dəˈmyo͝or/ adj. (of a woman or her behavior) reserved, modest, and shy. ""a demure little wife who sits at home minding the house"" synonyms: modest, unassuming, meek, mild, reserved, retiring, quiet, shy, bashful, diffident, reticent, timid, shrinking, coy"
antedate	"/ˈan(t)iˌdāt/ v. precede in time; come before (something) in date. synonyms: precede, predate, come/go before, be earlier than ""a civilization that antedates the Roman Empire"""
imponderable	"/imˈpändərəbəl/ n. a factor that is difficult or impossible to estimate or assess. ""there are too many imponderables for an overall prediction""   adj. difficult or impossible to estimate, assess, or answer. ""an imponderable problem of metaphysics"""
raffish	"/ˈrafiSH/ adj. unconventional and slightly disreputable, especially in an attractive manner. ""his raffish air"" synonyms: rakish, unconventional, Bohemian"
staunch	"/stôn(t)SH/ adj. loyal and committed in attitude. ""a staunch supporter of the antinuclear lobby"" synonyms: stalwart, loyal, faithful, committed, devoted, dedicated, dependable, reliable, steady, constant, trusty, hard-working, steadfast, redoubtable, unwavering, tireless"
prowess	"/ˈprouəs/ n. skill or expertise in a particular activity or field. ""his prowess as a fisherman"" synonyms: skill, expertise, mastery, facility, ability, capability, capacity, savoir faire, talent, genius, adeptness, aptitude, dexterity, deftness, competence, accomplishment, proficiency, finesse ""his prowess as a winemaker"""
myopic	"/ˌmīˈäpik/ adj. lacking imagination, foresight, or intellectual insight. ""the government still has a myopic attitude to public spending"" synonyms: unimaginative, uncreative, unadventurous, narrow-minded, small-minded, short-term, shortsighted ""the government's myopic attitude""   adj. nearsighted. synonyms: nearsighted; shortsighted ""a myopic patient"""
valediction	"/ˌvaləˈdikSHən/ n. the action of saying farewell. ""he spread his palm in valediction"" synonyms: farewell, goodbye, adieu, leave-taking; parting words ""he departed without a valediction"""
heedless	"/ˈhēdləs/ adj. showing a reckless lack of care or attention. ""“Elaine!” she shouted, heedless of attracting unwanted attention"" synonyms: unmindful, taking no notice, paying no heed, unheeding, disregardful, neglectful, oblivious, inattentive, blind, deaf"
flaunt	"/flônt/ v. display (something) ostentatiously, especially in order to provoke envy or admiration or to show defiance. ""newly rich consumers eager to flaunt their prosperity"" synonyms: show off, display ostentatiously, make a (great) show of, put on show/display, parade"
fetid	"/ˈfedid/ adj. smelling extremely unpleasant. ""the fetid water of the marsh"" synonyms: stinking, smelly, foul-smelling, malodorous, reeking, pungent, acrid, high, rank, foul, noxious, humming"
cloy	"/kloi/ v. disgust or sicken (someone) with an excess of sweetness, richness, or sentiment. ""a romantic, rather cloying story"" synonyms: sickly, syrupy, saccharine, oversweet"
ascendancy	"/əˈsendənsē/ n. occupation of a position of dominant power or influence. ""the ascendancy of good over evil"" synonyms: dominance, domination, supremacy, superiority, paramountcy, predominance, primacy, dominion, hegemony, authority, control, command, power, rule, sovereignty, lordship, leadership, influence"
pittance	/ˈpitns/ n. a very small or inadequate amount of money paid to someone as an allowance or wage. synonyms: a tiny amount, next to nothing, very little
genteel	/jenˈtēl/ adj. polite, refined, or respectable, often in an affected or ostentatious way. synonyms: refined, respectable, decorous, mannerly, well mannered, courteous, polite, proper, correct, seemly
virago	/vəˈräɡō/ n. a domineering, violent, or bad-tempered woman. synonyms: harridan, shrew, dragon, termagant, vixen
invective	"/inˈvektiv/ n. insulting, abusive, or highly critical language. ""he let out a stream of invective"" synonyms: abuse, insults, expletives, swear words, swearing, curses, foul language, foul language, vituperation"
start	"/stärt/ n. a sudden movement of surprise or alarm. ""she awoke with a start"" synonyms: jerk, twitch, flinch, wince, spasm, convulsion, jump"
desist	"/dəˈzist/ v. cease; abstain. ""each pledged to desist from acts of sabotage"" synonyms: abstain from, refrain from, forbear from, hold back from, keep from"
moment	"/ˈmōmənt/ n. importance. ""the issues were of little moment to the electorate"" synonyms: importance, import, significance, consequence, note, weight, concern, interest ""issues of little moment"""
avuncular	/əˈvəNGkyələr/ adj. relating to an uncle.
plaster	"/ˈplastər/ n. a soft mixture of lime with sand or cement and water for spreading on walls, ceilings, or other structures to form a smooth hard surface when dried. synonyms: plasterwork, stucco, pargeting ""the plaster covering the bricks""   v. cover (a wall, ceiling, or other structure) with plaster. synonyms: cover thickly, smother, spread, smear, cake, coat, slather ""bread plastered with butter"""
moot	"/mo͞ot/ adj. subject to debate, dispute, or uncertainty, and typically not admitting of a final decision. ""whether the temperature rise was mainly due to the greenhouse effect was a moot point"" synonyms: debatable, open to discussion/question, arguable, questionable, at issue, open to doubt, disputable, controversial, contentious, disputed, unresolved, unsettled, up in the air ""a moot point""   v. raise (a question or topic) for discussion; suggest (an idea or possibility). ""Sylvia needed a vacation, and a trip to Ireland had been mooted"" synonyms: raise, bring up, broach, mention, put forward, introduce, advance, propose, suggest ""the idea was first mooted in the 1930s"""
slapdash	"/ˈslapˌdaSH/ adj. done too hurriedly and carelessly. ""he gave a slapdash performance"" synonyms: careless, slipshod, hurried, haphazard, unsystematic, untidy, messy, hit-or-miss, negligent, neglectful, lax"
check	"/CHek/ v. stop or slow down the progress of (something undesirable). ""efforts were made to check the disease"" synonyms: halt, stop, arrest, cut short"
reservation	"/ˌrezərˈvāSH(ə)n/ n. a qualification to an expression of agreement or approval; a doubt. ""some generals voiced reservations about making air strikes"" synonyms: doubts, qualms, scruples"
wanton	"/ˈwänt(ə)n/ adj. (of a cruel or violent action) deliberate and unprovoked. ""sheer wanton vandalism"" synonyms: deliberate, willful, malicious, spiteful, wicked, cruel   adj. (especially of a woman) sexually immodest or promiscuous. synonyms: promiscuous, immoral, immodest, indecent, shameless, unchaste, fast, loose, impure, abandoned, lustful, lecherous, lascivious, libidinous, licentious, dissolute, debauched, degenerate, corrupt, whorish, disreputable ""a wanton seductress"""
boorish	"/ˈbo͝oriSH/ adj. rough and bad-mannered; coarse. ""boorish behavior"" synonyms: coarse, uncouth, rude, ill-bred, ill-mannered, uncivilized, unrefined, rough, thuggish, loutish, oafish, lubberly, lumpen"
screed	/skrēd/ n. a long speech or piece of writing, typically one regarded as tedious.   v. level (a floor or layer of concrete) with a straight edge using a back and forth motion while moving across the surface.
finagle	"/fəˈnāɡ(ə)l/ v. obtain (something) by devious or dishonest means. ""Ted attended all the football games he could finagle tickets for"""
rakish	"/ˈrākiSH/ adj. having or displaying a dashing, jaunty, or slightly disreputable quality or appearance. ""he had a rakish, debonair look"" synonyms: dashing, debonair, stylish, jaunty, devil-may-care"
impregnable	"/imˈpreɡnəb(ə)l/ adj. (of a fortified position) unable to be captured or broken into. ""an impregnable wall of solid sandstone"" synonyms: invulnerable, impenetrable, unassailable, inviolable, secure, strong, well fortified, well defended   adj. unable to be defeated or destroyed; unassailable. ""the case against Hastings would have been almost impregnable"" synonyms: unassailable, unbeatable, undefeatable, unshakable, invincible, unconquerable, invulnerable ""he displayed a calm, impregnable certainty"""
chivalrous	/ˈSHivəlrəs/ adj. (of a man or his behavior) courteous and gallant, especially toward women. synonyms: gallant, gentlemanly, honorable, respectful, considerate
testy	"/ˈtestē/ adj. easily irritated; impatient and somewhat bad-tempered. synonyms: irritable, tetchy, cranky, ornery, cantankerous, irascible, bad-tempered, grumpy, grouchy, crotchety, petulant, crabby, crusty, curmudgeonly, ill-tempered, ill-humored, peevish, cross, fractious, pettish, prickly, short-fused, waspish, snappish, snippy ""what's made you so testy today?"""
demeanor	"/dəˈmēnər/ n. outward behavior or bearing. ""a quiet, somber demeanor"" synonyms: manner, air, attitude, appearance, look"
fetch	"/feCH/ v. go for and then bring back (someone or something). ""he ran to fetch help"" synonyms: (go and) get, go for, call for, summon, pick up, collect, bring, carry, convey, transport ""he went to fetch a doctor""   v. achieve (a particular price) when sold. ""handwoven blankets and rugs that can fetch as much as $45,000"" synonyms: sell for, bring in, raise, realize, yield, make, command, cost, be priced at"
entourage	"/ˌänto͝oˈräZH/ n. a group of people attending or surrounding an important person. ""an entourage of bodyguards"" synonyms: retinue, escort, cortège, train, suite"
trip	"/trip/ v. catch one's foot on something and stumble or fall. ""he tripped over his cat"" synonyms: stumble, lose one's footing, catch one's foot, slip, lose one's balance, fall, fall down, tumble, topple, take a spill, wipe out ""he tripped on the loose stones"""
patent	"/ˈpatnt/ adj. easily recognizable; obvious. ""she was smiling with patent insincerity"" synonyms: obvious, clear, plain, evident, manifest, self-evident, transparent, overt, conspicuous, blatant, downright, barefaced, flagrant, undisguised, unconcealed, unmistakable ""patent nonsense"""
connive	"/kəˈnīv/ v. secretly allow (something considered immoral, illegal, wrong, or harmful) to occur. ""you have it in your power to connive at my escape"" synonyms: conspire, collude, collaborate, intrigue, be hand in glove, plot, scheme ""at least two of the directors connived with him in the cover-up""    v. conspire to do something considered immoral, illegal, or harmful. ""the government had connived with security forces in permitting murder"""
deign	"/dān/ v. do something that one considers to be beneath one's dignity. ""she did not deign to answer the maid's question"""
cadaverous	"/kəˈdav(ə)rəs/ adj. resembling a corpse in being very pale, thin, or bony. ""he had a cadaverous appearance"" synonyms: (deathly) pale, pallid, ashen, gray, whey-faced, sallow, wan, anemic, bloodless, etiolated, corpselike, deathlike"
disreputable	"/disˈrepyədəb(ə)l/ adj. not considered to be respectable in character or appearance. ""think twice before buying cheap fireworks from disreputable sources"" synonyms: of bad reputation, infamous, notorious, louche"
appreciable	"/əˈprēSH(ē)əb(ə)l/ adj. large or important enough to be noticed. ""tea and coffee both contain appreciable amounts of caffeine"" synonyms: considerable, substantial, significant, sizable, goodly, fair, reasonable, marked"
perquisite	"/ˈpərkwəzət/ n. a thing regarded as a special right or privilege enjoyed as a result of one's position. ""the wife of a president has all the perquisites of stardom"""
behoove	"/bəˈho͞ov/ v. it is a duty or responsibility for someone to do something; it is incumbent on. ""it behooves any coach to study his predecessors"" synonyms: be incumbent on, be obligatory for, be required of, be expected of, be appropriate for   v. it is appropriate or suitable; it befits. ""it ill behooves the opposition constantly to decry the sale of arms to friendly countries"""
unseemly	"/ˌənˈsēmlē/ adj. (of behavior or actions) not proper or appropriate. ""an unseemly squabble"" synonyms: improper, unbecoming, unfitting, unbefitting, unworthy, undignified, indiscreet, indelicate, indecorous, ungentlemanly, unladylike ""their unseemly behavior at Donna's baby shower"""
junta	"/ˈho͝on(t)ə/ n. a military or political group that rules a country after taking power by force. ""the country's ruling military junta"" synonyms: faction, cabal, clique, camarilla, party, set, ring, gang, league, confederacy ""the press is censored and controlled by the military junta"""
licorice	/ˈlik(ə)riSH/ n. a sweet, chewy, aromatic black substance made by evaporation from the juice of a root and used as a candy and in medicine.
glee	"/ɡlē/  n. great delight. ""his face lit up with impish glee"" synonyms: delight, pleasure, happiness, joy, gladness, elation, euphoria"
tender	"/ˈtendər/ adj. showing gentleness and concern or sympathy. ""he was being so kind and tender"" synonyms: caring, kind, kindly, kindhearted, softhearted, tenderhearted, compassionate, sympathetic, warm, warmhearted, solicitous, fatherly, motherly, maternal, gentle, mild, benevolent, generous, giving, humane antonyms: hard-hearted, callous   v. offer or present (something) formally. ""he tendered his resignation as leader"" synonyms: offer, proffer, present, put forward, propose, suggest, advance, submit, extend, give, render; hand in"
fleece	"/flēs/ v. obtain a great deal of money from (someone), typically by overcharging or swindling them. ""money that authorities say he fleeced from well-to-do acquaintances"""
redress	"/rəˈdres/ v. remedy or set right (an undesirable or unfair situation). ""the power to redress the grievances of our citizens"" synonyms: rectify, correct, right, put to rights, compensate for, amend, remedy, make good, resolve, settle   n. remedy or compensation for a wrong or grievance. ""those seeking redress for an infringement of public law rights"" synonyms: compensation, reparation, restitution, recompense, repayment, indemnity, indemnification, retribution, satisfaction; justice ""your best hope of redress"""
beatific	"/ˌbēəˈtifik/ adj. blissfully happy. synonyms: rapturous, joyful, ecstatic, seraphic, blissful, serene, happy, beaming ""a beatific smile"""
seemly	"/ˈsēmlē/ adj. conforming to accepted notions of propriety or good taste; decorous. ""I felt it was not seemly to observe too closely"" synonyms: decorous, proper, decent, becoming, fitting, suitable, appropriate, apt, apposite, in good taste, genteel, polite, the done thing, right, correct, acceptable, comme il faut ""we expect more seemly behavior at our dinner table"""
raft	"/raft/ n. a flat buoyant structure of timber or other materials fastened together, used as a boat or floating platform.   n. a large amount of something. ""a raft of government initiatives"""
checkered	"/ˈCHekərd/ adj. marked by periods of varied fortune or discreditable incidents. ""his checkered past might hurt his electability"" synonyms: varied, mixed, up and down, full of ups and downs, vicissitudinous"
scintillating	"/ˈsin(t)lˌādiNG/ adj. sparkling or shining brightly. ""the scintillating sun"" synonyms: sparkling, shining, bright, brilliant, gleaming, glittering, twinkling, shimmering, glistening ""a scintillating diamond necklace""   adj. brilliantly and excitingly clever or skillful. ""the audience loved his scintillating wit"" synonyms: brilliant, dazzling, exciting, exhilarating, stimulating"
inflammatory	"/inˈflaməˌtôrē/ adj. relating to or causing inflammation of a part of the body.   adj. (especially of speech or writing) arousing or intended to arouse angry or violent feelings. ""inflammatory slogans"" synonyms: provocative, incendiary, inflaming, inciting, agitating, stirring, rousing, provoking, fomenting, rabble-rousing, seditious, subversive, mutinous"
snide	"/snīd/ adj. derogatory or mocking in an indirect way. ""snide remarks about my mother"" synonyms: disparaging, derogatory, deprecating, denigratory, insulting, contemptuous, dismissive"
unruly	"/ˌənˈro͞olē/ adj. disorderly and disruptive and not amenable to discipline or control. ""complaints about unruly behavior"" synonyms: disorderly, rowdy, wild, unmanageable, uncontrollable, disobedient, ill-behaved, disruptive, undisciplined, restive, wayward, willful, headstrong, irrepressible, obstreperous, difficult, intractable, out of hand, recalcitrant"
becoming	"/bəˈkəmiNG/ adj. (especially of clothing) flattering a person's appearance. ""what a becoming dress!"" synonyms: flattering, attractive, lovely, pretty, handsome, fetching"
tribulation	"/ˌtribyəˈlāSH(ə)n/ n. a state of great trouble or suffering. ""his time of tribulation was just beginning"" synonyms: trouble, difficulty, problem, worry, anxiety, burden, cross to bear, ordeal, trial, adversity, hardship, tragedy, sorrow, trauma, affliction"
mistrial	/ˈmisˌtrī(ə)l/ n. a trial rendered invalid through an error in the proceedings.
ointment	/ˈointmənt/ n. a smooth oily preparation that is rubbed on the skin for medicinal purposes or as a cosmetic. synonyms: lotion, cream, salve, liniment, rub, gel, balm, emollient, unguent
bequeath	"/bəˈkwēT͟H/ v. leave (a personal estate or one's body) to a person or other beneficiary by a will. ""an identical sum was bequeathed by Margaret"" synonyms: leave to, leave in one's will to, hand on/down to, will to, make over to, pass on to, entrust to, grant to, transfer to   v. pass (something) on or leave (something) to someone else. ""he is ditching the unpopular policies bequeathed to him"""
denotation	"/ˌdēnōˈtāSHən/ n. the literal or primary meaning of a word, in contrast to the feelings or ideas that the word suggests. ""beyond their immediate denotation, the words have a connotative power"""
jumble	"/ˈjəmbəl/ n. an untidy collection or pile of things. ""the books were in a chaotic jumble"" synonyms: untidy heap, clutter, muddle, mess, confusion, disarray, tangle, imbroglio   v. mix up in a confused or untidy way. ""a drawer full of letters jumbled together"" synonyms: mix up, muddle up, disarrange, disorganize, disorder, put in disarray ""the photographs are all jumbled up"""
figurative	"/ˈfiɡyərədiv/ adj. departing from a literal use of words; metaphorical. ""gold, in the figurative language of the people, was “the tears wept by the sun.”"" synonyms: metaphorical, nonliteral, symbolic, allegorical, representative, emblematic ""the example given was meant to be figurative"""
fortitude	"/ˈfôrdəˌt(y)o͞od/ n. courage in pain or adversity. ""she endured her illness with great fortitude"" synonyms: courage, bravery, endurance, resilience, mettle, moral fiber, strength of mind, strength of character, strong-mindedness, backbone, spirit, grit, true grit, doughtiness, steadfastness"
blatant	"/ˈblātnt/ adj. (of bad behavior) done openly and unashamedly. ""blatant lies"" synonyms: flagrant, glaring, obvious, undisguised, unconcealed, open   adj. completely lacking in subtlety; very obvious. ""forcing herself to resist his blatant charm"""
slipshod	"/ˈslipˌSHäd/ adj. (typically of a person or method of work) characterized by a lack of care, thought, or organization. ""he'd caused many problems with his slipshod management"" synonyms: careless, lackadaisical, slapdash, disorganized, haphazard, hit-or-miss, untidy, messy, unsystematic, unmethodical, casual, negligent, neglectful, remiss, lax, slack"
loutish	/ˈloudiSH/ adj. (of a man or boy) uncouth and aggressive.
ethereal	/əˈTHirēəl/ adj. characterized by lightness and insubstantiality; as impalpable or intangible as air  “physical rather than ethereal forms” synonyms: aerial, aeriform, aery, airy, insubstantial, unreal, unsubstantial   adj characterized by unusual lightness and delicacy  “this smallest and most ethereal of birds” synonyms: gossamer
lofty	"/ˈlôftē/ adj. of imposing height. ""the elegant square was shaded by lofty palms"" synonyms: tall, high, giant, towering, soaring, skyscraping ""a lofty tower"""
soot	/so͝ot/ n. a black powdery or flaky substance consisting largely of amorphous carbon, produced by the incomplete burning of organic matter.
indemnify	"/inˈdemnəˌfī/ v. compensate (someone) for harm or loss. ""the amount of insurance that may be carried to indemnify the owner in the event of a loss""   v. secure (someone) against legal responsibility for their actions. ""the newspaper could not be forced to indemnify the city for personal-injury liability"""
posthumously	"/ˈpäsCHəməslē/ adv. after the death of the originator. ""a number of songs were posthumously published in 1924"""
moniker	/ˈmänəkər/ n. a name.
bolt	/bōlt/ v. fasten (something) with a metal pin or bar, in particular.
chaperone	"/ˈSHapəˌrōn/ n. a person who accompanies and looks after another person or group of people. synonyms: supervisor, companion, duenna, escort, minder, den mother ""two teachers attended as chaperones""   v. accompany and look after or supervise. synonyms: accompany, escort, attend, watch over, keep an eye on, protect, mind ""she was chaperoned by her mother"""
chant	"/CHant/v. say or shout repeatedly in a singsong tone. ""protesters were chanting slogans"" synonyms: shout, chorus, repeat"
pariah	"/pəˈrīə/ n. an outcast. ""they were treated as social pariahs"" synonyms: outcast, persona non grata, leper, undesirable, unperson, nonperson"
outcast	"/ˈoutˌkast/ n. a person who has been rejected by society or a social group. synonyms: pariah, persona non grata, reject, outsider, leper   adj. rejected or cast out. ""made to feel outcast and inadequate"""
spurn	"/spərn/ v. reject with disdain or contempt. ""he spoke gruffly, as if afraid that his invitation would be spurned"" synonyms: reject, rebuff, scorn, turn down, treat with contempt, disdain, look down one's nose at, despise"
sputter	"/ˈspədər/ v. make a series of soft explosive sounds, typically when being heated or as a symptom of a fault. ""the engine sputtered and stopped"""
gleam	"/ɡlēm/ v. shine brightly, especially with reflected light. ""light gleamed on the china cats"" synonyms: shine, glimmer, glint, glitter, shimmer, sparkle, twinkle, flicker, wink, glisten, flash ""the new silver tea service positively gleams""   n. a faint or brief light, especially one reflected from something. ""the gleam of a silver tray"""
chancellor	/ˈCHans(ə)lər/ n. a senior state or legal official.   n. the head of the government in some European countries, such as Germany.
swagger	"/ˈswaɡər/ v. walk or behave in a very confident and typically arrogant or aggressive way. ""he swaggered along the corridor"" synonyms: strut, parade, stride   n. a very confident and typically arrogant or aggressive gait or manner. ""they strolled around the camp with an exaggerated swagger"" synonyms: strut"
ravage	"/ˈravij/ v. cause severe and extensive damage to. ""fears that a war could ravage their country"" synonyms: lay waste, devastate, ruin, destroy, wreak havoc on, leave desolate   n. the severely damaging or destructive effects of something. ""his face had withstood the ravages of time"" synonyms: damaging effects, ill effects ""the ravages of time"""
mortar	"/ˈmôrdər/ n. a short, smoothbore gun for firing shells (technically called bombs) at high angles.   v. attack or bombard with shells fired from a mortar.   n. a mixture of lime with cement, sand, and water, used in building to bond bricks or stones.   v. fix or join using mortar. ""the pipe can be mortared in place"""
brink	"/briNGk/ n. an extreme edge of land before a steep or vertical slope. ""the brink of the cliffs"" synonyms: edge, verge, margin, rim, lip   n. a point at which something, typically something unwelcome, is about to happen; the verge. ""the country was on the brink of a constitutional crisis"" synonyms: verge, threshold, point, edge ""two countries on the brink of war"""
gratification	"/ˌɡradəfəˈkāSH(ə)n/ n. pleasure, especially when gained from the satisfaction of a desire. ""a thirst for sexual gratification"" synonyms: satisfaction, fulfillment, indulgence, relief, appeasement"
florid	"/ˈflôrid/ adj. having a red or flushed complexion. ""a stout man with a florid face"" synonyms: ruddy, red, red-faced, rosy, rosy-cheeked, pink   adj. elaborately or excessively intricate or complicated. ""florid operatic-style music was out"" synonyms: ornate, fancy, elaborate, embellished, curlicued, extravagant, flamboyant, baroque, rococo, fussy, busy"
gruff	"/ɡrəf/ adj. (of a voice) rough and low in pitch. ""she spoke with a gruff, masculine voice"" synonyms: rough, guttural, throaty, gravelly, husky, croaking, rasping, raspy, growly, hoarse, harsh   adj. abrupt or taciturn in manner. ""penetrate a gruff exterior and you will find him affable"" synonyms: abrupt, brusque, curt, short, blunt, bluff, no-nonsense"
electorate	/əˈlekt(ə)rət/ n. all the people in a country or area who are entitled to vote in an election.
corollary	/ˈkôrəˌlerē/ n. a proposition that follows from (and is often appended to) one already proved.   adj. forming a proposition that follows from one already proved.
bastardize	"/ˈbastərˌdīz/ v. corrupt or debase (something such as a language or art form), typically by adding new elements. ""a strange, bastardized form of French"" synonyms: adulterate, corrupt, contaminate, weaken, dilute, taint, pollute, debase, distort ""it is unthinkable that I would bastardize my values"""
apothegm	/ˈapəˌTHem/ n. a concise saying or maxim; an aphorism.
mend	"/mend/ v. repair (something that is broken or damaged). ""workmen were mending faulty cabling"" synonyms: repair, fix, put back together, piece together, restore"
lacerate	"/ˈlasəˌrāt/ v. tear or make deep cuts in (flesh or skin). ""the point had lacerated his neck"" synonyms: cut (open), gash, slash, tear, rip, rend, shred   v. criticize forcefully or severely. ""her true venom seems reserved for the media itself as she lacerates our obsession with celebrity"""
countermand	"/ˈkoun(t)ərˌmand/ v. revoke (an order). ""an order to arrest the strike leaders had been countermanded"" synonyms: revoke, rescind, reverse, undo, repeal, retract, withdraw, quash, overturn, overrule, cancel, annul, invalidate, nullify, negate"
uncanny	"/ˌənˈkanē/ adj. strange or mysterious, especially in an unsettling way. ""an uncanny feeling that she was being watched"" synonyms: eerie, unnatural, unearthly, preternatural, supernatural, otherworldly, ghostly, mysterious, strange, unsettling, abnormal, weird, bizarre, surreal, eldritch"
sardonic	"/särˈdänik/ adj. grimly mocking or cynical. ""Starkey attempted a sardonic smile"" synonyms: mocking, satirical, sarcastic, ironical, ironic"
conflagration	"/ˌkänfləˈɡrāSH(ə)n/ n. an extensive fire that destroys a great deal of land or property. synonyms: fire, blaze, flames, inferno, firestorm ""the conflagration spread rapidly through the wooden buildings"""
flagrant	"/ˈflāɡrənt/ adj. (of something considered wrong or immoral) conspicuously or obviously offensive. ""his flagrant bad taste"" synonyms: blatant, glaring, obvious, overt, conspicuous, barefaced, shameless, brazen, undisguised, unconcealed"
machinate	/ˈmaSHəˌnāt/ v. engage in plots and intrigues; scheme.
dovetail	"/ˈdəvˌtāl/ n. a joint formed by one or more tapered projections (tenons) on one piece that interlock with corresponding notches or recesses (mortises) in another.   v. join together by means of a dovetail. synonyms: joint, join, fit together, splice, mortise, tenon ""the ends of the logs were dovetailed"""
ostracize	"/ˈästrəˌsīz/ v. exclude (someone) from a society or group. ""a group of people who have been ridiculed, ostracized, and persecuted for centuries"" synonyms: exclude, shun, spurn, cold-shoulder, reject, shut out, avoid, ignore, snub, cut dead, keep at arm's length, leave out in the cold"
persecute	"/ˈpərsəˌkyo͞ot/ v. subject (someone) to hostility and ill-treatment, especially because of their race or political or religious beliefs. ""his followers were persecuted by the authorities"" synonyms: oppress, abuse, victimize, ill-treat, mistreat, maltreat, tyrannize, torment, torture; martyr ""they were persecuted for their religious beliefs""   v. harass or annoy (someone) persistently. ""Hilda was persecuted by some of the other girls"" synonyms: harass, hound, plague, badger, harry, intimidate, pick on, pester, bother, devil, bully, victimize, terrorize"
reign	"/rān/ v. hold royal office; rule as king or queen. ""Queen Elizabeth reigns over the UK"" synonyms: be king/queen, be monarch, be sovereign, sit on the throne, wear the crown, rule   n. the period during which a sovereign rules. ""the original chapel was built in the reign of Charles I"" synonyms: rule, sovereignty, monarchy ""during Henry's reign"""
charade	"/SHəˈrād/ n. an absurd pretense intended to create a pleasant or respectable appearance. ""talk of unity was nothing more than a charade"" synonyms: farce, pantomime, travesty, mockery, parody, pretense, act, masquerade ""our entire relationship is a charade"""
inadvertently	"/ˌinədˈvərtntlē/ adv. without intention; accidentally. ""his name had been inadvertently omitted from the list"""
overarching	"/ˌōvərˈärCHiNG/ adj. forming an arch over something. ""the overarching mangroves""   adj. comprehensive; all-embracing. ""a single overarching principle"""
inextricably	"/ˌinəkˈstrikəblē/ adv. in a way that is impossible to disentangle or separate. ""for many top executives, golf and business are inextricably linked"""
overturn	"/ˌōvərˈtərn/ v. tip (something) over so that it is on its side or upside down. ""the crowd proceeded to overturn cars and set them on fire""   v. abolish, invalidate, or reverse (a previous system, decision, situation, etc.). ""the results overturned previous findings"" synonyms: cancel, reverse, rescind, repeal, revoke, retract, countermand, disallow, override, overrule, veto, quash, overthrow, annul, nullify, invalidate, negate, void"
plutocracy	/plo͞oˈtäkrəsē/ n. government by the wealthy.
unsung	"/ˌənˈsəNG/ adj. not celebrated or praised. ""Harvey is one of the unsung heroes of the industrial revolution"" synonyms: unacknowledged, uncelebrated, unacclaimed, unapplauded, unhailed, unheralded"
moor	"/mo͝or/ v. make fast (a boat) by attaching it by cable or rope to the shore or to an anchor. ""twenty or so fishing boats were moored to the pier"" synonyms: tie up, secure, make fast, fix firmly, anchor, berth, dock ""a boat was moored to the quay"""
catholic	"/ˈkaTH(ə)lik/ adj. including a wide variety of things; all-embracing. ""her tastes are pretty catholic"" synonyms: universal, diverse, diversified, wide, broad, broad-based, eclectic, liberal, latitudinarian"
dolorous	/ˈdōlərəs/ adj. feeling or expressing great sorrow or distress.
transmute	"/transˈmyo͞ot/ v. change in form, nature, or substance. ""the raw material of his experience was transmuted into stories"" synonyms: change, alter, adapt, transform, convert, metamorphose, morph, translate ""the books were transmuted into workable scripts"""
anemia	/əˈnēmēə/ n. a condition marked by a deficiency of red blood cells or of hemoglobin in the blood, resulting in pallor and weariness.
chimera	"/kīˈmirə/ n. a thing that is hoped or wished for but in fact is illusory or impossible to achieve. ""the economic sovereignty you claim to defend is a chimera"" synonyms: illusion, fantasy, delusion, dream, daydream, pipe dream, figment of the/one's imagination, castle in the air, mirage ""is this great love of hers merely a chimera?"""
unimpeachable	"/ˌənəmˈpēCHəb(ə)l/ adj. not able to be doubted, questioned, or criticized; entirely trustworthy. ""an unimpeachable witness"" synonyms: trustworthy, reliable, dependable, above suspicion, irreproachable"
rebuke	"/rəˈbyo͞ok/ v. express sharp disapproval or criticism of (someone) because of their behavior or actions. ""she had rebuked him for drinking too much"" synonyms: reprimand, reproach, scold, admonish, reprove, chastise, upbraid, berate, take to task, criticize, censure"
frustrate	"/ˈfrəstrāt/ v. prevent (a plan or attempted action) from progressing, succeeding, or being fulfilled. ""his attempt to frustrate the merger"" synonyms: thwart, defeat, foil, block, stop, put a stop to, counter, spoil, check, balk, disappoint, forestall, dash, scotch, quash, crush, derail, snooker"
percipient	"/pərˈsipēənt/ adj. (of a person) having a good understanding of things; perceptive. ""he is a percipient interpreter of the public mood"""
inviolate	"/inˈvīələt/ adj. free or safe from injury or violation. ""an international memorial which must remain inviolate"" synonyms: untouchable, inviolable, safe from harm"
firebrand	"/ˈfī(ə)rˌbrand/ n. a person who is passionate about a particular cause, typically inciting change and taking radical action. synonyms: radical, revolutionary, agitator, rabble-rouser, incendiary, subversive, troublemaker ""a group of political firebrands"""
unflappable	/ˌənˈflapəb(ə)l/ adj. having or showing calmness in a crisis. synonyms: imperturbable, unexcitable, cool, calm, 'calm, cool, and collected', self-controlled, coolheaded, levelheaded, nonconfrontational
gaffe	"/ɡaf/ n. an unintentional act or remark causing embarrassment to its originator; a blunder. ""an unforgivable social gaffe"" synonyms: blunder, mistake, error, slip, faux pas, indiscretion, impropriety, miscalculation, gaucherie, solecism"
malfeasance	/ˌmalˈfēzəns/ n. wrongdoing, especially by a public official.
pecuniary	"/pəˈkyo͞onēˌerē/ adj. relating to or consisting of money. ""he admitted obtaining a pecuniary advantage by deception"" synonyms: financial, monetary, money, fiscal, economic ""free from pecuniary anxieties"""
officious	"/əˈfiSHəs/ adj. assertive of authority in an annoyingly domineering way, especially with regard to petty or trivial matters. ""a policeman came to move them on, an officious, spiteful man""   adj. intrusively enthusiastic in offering help or advice; interfering. ""an officious bystander"" synonyms: self-important, bumptious, self-assertive, overbearing, overzealous, domineering, opinionated, interfering, intrusive, meddlesome, meddling"
wriggle	"/ˈriɡəl/ v. twist and turn with quick writhing movements. ""he kicked and wriggled but she held him firmly"" synonyms: squirm, writhe, wiggle, jiggle, jerk, thresh, flounder, flail, twitch, twist and turn"
shove	"/SHəv/ v. push (someone or something) roughly. ""police started pushing and shoving people down the street"" synonyms: push, thrust, propel, drive, force, ram, knock, elbow, shoulder"
hunker	"/ˈhəNGkər/ v. squat or crouch down low. ""he hunkered down beside her""   v. apply oneself seriously to a task. ""students hunkered down to prepare for the examinations"""
bedraggled	"/bəˈdraɡəld/ adj. dirty and disheveled. ""we got there, tired and bedraggled"" synonyms: disheveled, disordered, untidy, unkempt, tousled, disarranged, in a mess, mussed ""the bedraggled search party"""
disheveled	"/dəˈSHevəld/ adj. (of a person's hair, clothes, or appearance) untidy; disordered. ""a man with long, disheveled hair"" synonyms: untidy, unkempt, scruffy, messy, in a mess, disordered, disarranged, rumpled, bedraggled antonyms: tidy"
epigram	/ˈepəˌɡram/ n. a pithy saying or remark expressing an idea in a clever and amusing way. synonyms: witticism, quip, jest, pun, bon mot
illustrious	"/iˈləstrēəs/ adj. well known, respected, and admired for past achievements. ""his illustrious predecessor"" synonyms: eminent, distinguished, acclaimed, notable, noteworthy, prominent, preeminent, foremost, leading, important, influential"
ranch	/ran(t)SH/ n. a large farm, especially in the western US and Canada, where cattle or other animals are bred and raised.
rarefied	"/ˈrerəˌfīd/ adj. (of air, especially that at high altitudes) of lower pressure than usual; thin.   adj. distant from the lives and concerns of ordinary people. ""debates about the nature of knowledge can seem very rarefied"" synonyms: esoteric, exclusive, select"
recrimination	"/rəˌkriməˈnāSH(ə)n/ n. an accusation in response to one from someone else. ""there are no tears, no recriminations"" synonyms: accusation(s), counteraccusation(s), countercharge(s), counterattack(s), retaliation(s) ""this is not a time for recrimination, but a time to come together in solidarity"""
solidarity	"/ˌsäləˈderədē/ n. unity or agreement of feeling or action, especially among individuals with a common interest; mutual support within a group. ""factory workers voiced solidarity with the striking students"" synonyms: unanimity, unity, like-mindedness, agreement, accord, harmony, consensus, concurrence, cooperation, cohesion, fraternity, mutual support ""our solidarity is what gives us the credibility and power to make changes"""
vengeful	"/ˈvenjfəl/ adj. seeking to harm someone in return for a perceived injury. ""a vengeful ex-con"" synonyms: vindictive, revengeful, out for revenge, unforgiving, on the warpath ""they worship a vengeful god"""
akin	"/əˈkin/ adj. of similar character. ""something akin to gratitude overwhelmed her"" synonyms: similar, related, close, near, corresponding, comparable, equivalent"
swoon	"/swo͞on/ v. faint from extreme emotion. ""I don't want a nurse who swoons at the sight of blood""   n. an occurrence of fainting. ""her strength ebbed away and she fell into a swoon"""
upbraid	"/ˌəpˈbrād/ v. find fault with (someone); scold. ""he was upbraided for his slovenly appearance"" synonyms: reprimand, rebuke, admonish, chastise, chide, reprove, reproach, scold, berate, take to task, lambaste, give someone a piece of one's mind, give someone a tongue-lashing, rake/haul over the coals, lecture"
lampoon	"/lamˈpo͞on/ v. publicly criticize (someone or something) by using ridicule, irony, or sarcasm. ""the senator made himself famous as a pinch-penny watchdog of public spending, lampooning dubious federal projects"" synonyms: satirize, mock, ridicule, make fun of, caricature, burlesque, parody, tease   n. a speech or text criticizing someone or something in this way. ""does this sound like a lampoon of student life?"" synonyms: satire, burlesque, parody, skit, caricature, impersonation, travesty, mockery"
sartorial	"/särˈtôrēəl/ adj. relating to tailoring, clothes, or style of dress. ""sartorial elegance"""
efficacious	"/ˌefəˈkāSHəs/ adj. (typically of something inanimate or abstract) successful in producing a desired or intended result; effective. ""the vaccine has proved both efficacious and safe"" synonyms: effective, effectual, successful, productive, constructive, potent"
hedge	"/hej/ n. a fence or boundary formed by closely growing bushes or shrubs. ""she was standing barefoot in a corner of the lawn, trimming the hedge"" synonyms: hedgerow, bushes; windbreak ""high hedges""   v. surround or bound with a hedge. ""a garden hedged with yews"" synonyms: surround, enclose, encircle, ring, border, edge, bound ""fields hedged with forsythia""   v. limit or qualify (something) by conditions or exceptions. ""experts usually hedge their predictions, just in case"" synonyms: confine, restrict, limit, hinder, obstruct, impede, constrain, trap; hem in ""she was hedged in by her limited education"""
unscrupulous	/ˌənˈskro͞opyələs/ adj. having or showing no moral principles; not honest or fair. synonyms: unprincipled, unethical, immoral, conscienceless, shameless, reprobate, exploitative, corrupt, dishonest, dishonorable, deceitful, devious, underhanded, unsavory, disreputable, evil, wicked, villainous, Machiavellian
kowtow	"/ˌkouˈtou/ v. act in an excessively subservient manner. ""she didn't have to kowtow to a boss"" synonyms: grovel to, be obsequious to, be servile to, be sycophantic to, fawn over/on, cringe to, bow and scrape to, toady to, truckle to, abase oneself before, humble oneself to"
plucky	/ˈpləkē/ adj. having or showing determined courage in the face of difficulties. synonyms: brave, courageous, bold, daring, fearless, intrepid, spirited, game, valiant, valorous, stouthearted, dauntless, resolute, determined, undaunted, unflinching, audacious, unafraid, doughty, mettlesome
expurgate	"/ˈekspərˌɡāt/ v. remove matter thought to be objectionable or unsuitable from (a book or account). ""the expurgated Arabian Nights"" synonyms: censor, bowdlerize, blue-pencil, cut, edit"
besotted	"/bəˈsädəd/ adj. strongly infatuated. ""he became besotted with his best friend's sister"" synonyms: infatuated with, smitten with, in love with, head over heels in love with, obsessed with"
obtain	"/əbˈtān/ v. be prevalent, customary, or established. ""the price of silver fell to that obtaining elsewhere in the ancient world"" synonyms: prevail, be in force, apply, exist, be in use, be in effect, stand, hold, be the case ""rules obtaining in other jurisdictions"""
ponderous	"/ˈpänd(ə)rəs/ adj. slow and clumsy because of great weight. ""her footsteps were heavy and ponderous"" synonyms: clumsy, heavy, awkward, lumbering, slow, cumbersome, ungainly, graceless, uncoordinated, blundering   adj. dull, laborious, or excessively solemn. ""Liz could hardly restrain herself from finishing all his ponderous sentences"" synonyms: labored, laborious, awkward, clumsy, forced, stilted, unnatural, artificial"
rapprochement	"/rapˌrōSHˈmän/ n. (especially in international relations) an establishment or resumption of harmonious relations. ""there were signs of a growing rapprochement between the two countries"" synonyms: reconciliation, increased understanding, detente, restoration of harmony, agreement, cooperation, harmonization, softening"
jingoistic	"/ˈˌjiNGɡōˈistik/ adj. characterized by extreme patriotism, especially in the form of aggressive or warlike foreign policy. ""jingoistic propaganda"""
protean	"/prōdēən/ adj. tending or able to change frequently or easily. ""it is difficult to comprehend the whole of this protean subject"" synonyms: ever-changing, variable, changeable, mutable, kaleidoscopic, inconstant, inconsistent, unstable, shifting, unsettled, fluctuating, fluid, wavering, vacillating, mercurial, volatile ""the protean nature of mental disorders""   adj. able to do many different things; versatile. ""Shostakovich was a remarkably protean composer, one at home in a wide range of styles"" synonyms: versatile, adaptable, flexible, all-around, multifaceted, multitalented, many-sided ""a remarkably protean composer"""
concomitant	"/kənˈkämədənt/ adj. naturally accompanying or associated. ""she loved travel, with all its concomitant worries"" synonyms: attendant, accompanying, associated, related, connected"
haughty	"/ˈhôdē/ adj. arrogantly superior and disdainful. ""a look of haughty disdain"" synonyms: proud, arrogant, vain, conceited, snobbish, superior, self-important, pompous, supercilious, condescending, patronizing"
inanity	"/iˈnanədē/ n. a nonsensical remark or action. ""they utter whatever inanities will get them elected""   n. lack of sense or meaning; silliness. ""he commented on the breathtaking inanity of the board's decision"""
tangential	"/tanˈjen(t)SHəl/ adj. diverging from a previous course or line; erratic. ""tangential thoughts""   adj. hardly touching a matter; peripheral. ""the reforms were tangential to efforts to maintain a basic standard of life"""
magisterial	"/ˌmajəˈstirēəl/ adj. having or showing great authority. ""a magisterial pronouncement"" synonyms: authoritative, masterful, assured, lordly, commanding, assertive"
cosset	"/ˈkäsət/ v. care for and protect in an overindulgent way. ""all her life she'd been cosseted by her family"" synonyms: pamper, indulge, overindulge, mollycoddle, coddle, baby, pet, mother, nanny, nursemaid, pander to, spoil; wait on someone hand and foot ""it was hurtful to them to see their father cosseting his stepchildren"""
efface	"/əˈfās/ v. erase (a mark) from a surface. ""with time, the words are effaced by the frost and the rain"" synonyms: erase, eradicate, expunge, blot out, rub out, wipe out, remove, eliminate   v. make oneself appear insignificant or inconspicuous. synonyms: make oneself inconspicuous, keep out of sight, keep out of the limelight, lie low, keep a low profile, withdraw (oneself) ""he attempted to efface himself"""
tease	"/tēz/ v. make fun of or attempt to provoke (a person or animal) in a playful way. ""Brenda teased her father about the powerboat that he bought but seldom used"" synonyms: make fun of, poke fun at, laugh at, guy, make a monkey (out) of"
cow	"/kou/ v. cause (someone) to submit to one's wishes by intimidation. ""the intellectuals had been cowed into silence"" synonyms: intimidate, daunt, browbeat, bully, tyrannize, scare, terrorize, frighten, dishearten, unnerve, subdue"
wanting	"/ˈwän(t)iNG/ adj. lacking in a certain required or necessary quality. ""they weren't wanting in confidence"" synonyms: deficient, inadequate, lacking, insufficient, imperfect, unacceptable, unsatisfactory, flawed, faulty, defective, unsound, substandard, inferior, second-rate, poor, shoddy   adj. not existing or supplied; absent. ""the kneecap is wanting in amphibians and reptiles"""
bromide	"/ˈbrōmīd/ n. a trite and unoriginal idea or remark, typically intended to soothe or placate. ""feel-good bromides create the illusion of problem solving"""
brooding	"/ˈbro͞odiNG/ adj. showing deep unhappiness of thought. ""he stared with brooding eyes"""
menace	"/ˈmenəs/ n. a person or thing that is likely to cause harm; a threat or danger. ""a new initiative aimed at beating the menace of drugs"" synonyms: danger, peril, risk, hazard, threat; jeopardy ""a menace to urban society""   v. threaten, especially in a malignant or hostile manner. ""Africa's elephants are still menaced by poaching"" synonyms: threaten, be a danger to, put at risk, jeopardize, imperil antonyms: friendly"
grouch	"/ɡrouCH/ n. a habitually grumpy person. ""rock's foremost poet and ill-mannered grouch"" synonyms: grumbler, complainer, moaner, curmudgeon   v. voice one's discontent in an ill-tempered manner; grumble. ""there's not a lot to grouch about"" synonyms: grumble, complain, grouse, whine, bleat, carp, cavil"
curmudgeon	/kərˈməjən/ n. a bad-tempered or surly person.
bristle	"/ˈbrisəl/ n. a short stiff hair, typically one of those on an animal's skin, a man's face, or a plant. synonyms: hair, whisker   v. (of hair or fur) stand upright away from the skin, especially in anger or fear. ""the hair on the back of his neck bristled"" synonyms: rise, stand up, stand on end   v. be covered with or abundant in. ""the roof bristled with antennas"" synonyms: abound, overflow, be full, be packed, be crowded, be jammed, be covered"
rotund	/rōˈtənd/ adj. (of a person) plump. synonyms: plump, chubby, fat, stout, portly, dumpy, round, chunky, overweight, heavy, paunchy, ample
pamper	"/ˈpampər/ v. indulge with every attention, comfort, and kindness; spoil. ""famous people just love being pampered"" synonyms: spoil, indulge, overindulge, cosset, mollycoddle, coddle, baby, wait on someone hand and foot ""Trevor's big sister pampered him"""
imprudent	"/imˈpro͞odnt/ adj. not showing care for the consequences of an action; rash. ""it would be imprudent to leave her winter coat behind"" synonyms: unwise, injudicious, incautious, indiscreet, misguided, ill-advised, ill-judged"
complicit	"/kəmˈplisit/ adj. involved with others in an illegal activity or wrongdoing. ""all of these people are complicit in some criminal conspiracy"""
philistine	"/ˈfiləˌstēn/ n. a person who is hostile or indifferent to culture and the arts, or who has no understanding of them. ""I am a complete philistine when it comes to paintings"" synonyms: uncultured, lowbrow, anti-intellectual, uncultivated, uncivilized, uneducated, unenlightened, commercial, materialist, bourgeois   adj. hostile or indifferent to culture and the arts. ""a philistine government"""
browbeat	"/ˈbrouˌbēt/ v. intimidate (someone), typically into doing something, with stern or abusive words. ""a witness is being browbeaten under cross-examination"" synonyms: bully, intimidate, force, coerce, compel, hector, dragoon, bludgeon, pressure, pressurize, tyrannize, terrorize, menace"
asperity	"/əˈsperədē/ n. harshness of tone or manner. ""he pointed this out with some asperity"" synonyms: harshness, sharpness, abrasiveness, roughness, severity, acerbity, astringency, tartness, sarcasm ""he replied with some asperity in his tone"""
aplomb	"/əˈpləm/ n. self-confidence or assurance, especially when in a demanding situation. ""Diana passed the test with aplomb"" synonyms: poise, self-assurance, self-confidence, calmness, composure, collectedness, levelheadedness, sangfroid, equilibrium, equanimity ""the judges were especially impressed by her aplomb"""
hobble	"/ˈhäbəl/ v. walk in an awkward way, typically because of pain from an injury. ""he was hobbling around on crutches"" synonyms: limp, walk with difficulty, walk lamely, move unsteadily, walk haltingly   v. tie or strap together (the legs of a horse or other animal) to prevent it from straying."
bereft	"/bəˈreft/ adj. deprived of or lacking something, especially a nonmaterial asset. ""her room was stark and bereft of color"" synonyms: deprived of, robbed of, stripped of, devoid of, bankrupt of"
forthcoming	"/fôrTHˈkəmiNG/ adj. planned for or about to happen in the near future. ""the forthcoming baseball season"" synonyms: imminent, impending, coming, upcoming, approaching, future   adj. (of something required) ready or made available when wanted or needed. ""financial support was not forthcoming"" synonyms: available, ready, at hand, accessible, obtainable, at someone's disposal, obtained, given, vouchsafed to someone"
subterfuge	/ˈsəbtərˌfyo͞oj/ n. deceit used in order to achieve one's goal. synonyms: trickery, intrigue, deviousness, deceit, deception, dishonesty, cheating, duplicity, guile, cunning, craftiness, chicanery, pretense, fraud, fraudulence
encumber	"/inˈkəmbər/ v. restrict or burden (someone or something) in such a way that free action or movement is difficult. ""she was encumbered by her heavy skirts"" synonyms: hamper, hinder, obstruct, impede, cramp, inhibit, restrict, limit, constrain, restrain, bog down, retard, slow (down)"
hauteur	/hōˈtər/ n. haughtiness of manner; disdainful pride. synonyms: haughtiness, superciliousness, arrogance, pride, conceit, snobbery, snobbishness, superiority, self-importance
eminent	"/ˈemənənt/ adj. (of a person) famous and respected within a particular sphere or profession. ""one of the world's most eminent statisticians"" synonyms: illustrious, distinguished, renowned, esteemed, preeminent, notable, noteworthy, great, prestigious, important, influential, affluential, outstanding, noted, of note   adj. used to emphasize the presence of a positive quality. ""the guitar's eminent suitability for recording studio work"" synonyms: obvious, clear, conspicuous, marked, singular, signal"
chastise	"/ˈCHasˌtīz/ v. rebuke or reprimand severely. ""he chastised his colleagues for their laziness"" synonyms: scold, upbraid, berate, reprimand, reprove, rebuke, admonish, chide, censure, lambaste, castigate, lecture, give someone a piece of one's mind, give someone a tongue-lashing, take to task, rake/haul over the coals"
reprisal	"/rəˈprīzəl/ n. an act of retaliation. ""three youths died in the reprisals that followed"" synonyms: retaliation, counterattack, comeback"
secrecy	"/ˈsēkrəsē/ n. the action of keeping something secret or the state of being kept secret. ""the bidding is conducted in secrecy"" synonyms: confidentiality, classified nature"
apprentice	"/əˈpren(t)əs/ n. a person who is learning a trade from a skilled employer, having agreed to work for a fixed period at low wages. ""an apprentice electrician"" synonyms: trainee, learner, probationer, novice, beginner, starter, cadet, tenderfoot antonyms: veteran"
thenceforth	"/T͟HensˈfôrTH/ adv. from that time, place, or point onward. ""thenceforth he made his life in England"""
traceable	"/ˈtrāsəb(ə)l/ adj. able to be found or discovered. ""the roots of his difficulties are easily traceable"""
corrugated	"/ˈkôrəˌɡādəd/ adj. (of a material, surface, or structure) shaped into alternate ridges and grooves. ""the roof was made of corrugated iron"" synonyms: ridged, fluted, grooved, furrowed, crinkled, crinkly, puckered, creased, wrinkled, wrinkly, crumpled ""panels of corrugated fiberglass"""
sweltering	"/ˈswelt(ə)riNG/ adj. uncomfortably hot. ""the sweltering afternoon heat"" synonyms: hot, stifling, humid, sultry, sticky, muggy, close, stuffy"
adjudicate	"/əˈjo͞odəˌkāt/ v. make a formal judgment or decision about a problem or disputed matter. ""the committee adjudicates on all betting disputes"""
mandate	"/ˈmanˌdāt/ v. give (someone) authority to act in a certain way. ""other colleges have mandated coed fraternities"" synonyms: instruct, order, direct, command, tell, require, charge, call on ""they were mandated to strike""   n. an official order or commission to do something. ""a mandate to seek the release of political prisoners"" synonyms: instruction, directive, decree, command, order, injunction, edict, charge, commission, bidding, ruling, fiat ""a mandate from the UN"""
bonanza	"/bəˈnanzə/ n. a situation or event that creates a sudden increase in wealth, good fortune, or profits. ""a bonanza in military sales"" synonyms: windfall, godsend, boon, blessing, bonus, stroke of luck, jackpot ""those grisly murders of 1872 turned into quite a bonanza for the town, which has thrived as a center of tourism ever since"""
amble	"/ˈambəl/ v. walk or move at a slow, relaxed pace.  ""they ambled along the riverbank"" synonyms:stroll, saunter, wander, meander, ramble, dawdle, promenade, walk, go for a walk, take a walk, roam, traipse, stretch one's legs, get some exercise, get some air, take the air"
whiz	"/(h)wiz/ v. move quickly through the air with a whistling or whooshing sound. ""missiles whizzed past"" synonyms: zoom, flash, zip, whip, hurtle, fly ""four emergency vehicles whizzed past us on Glenwood"""
ferocity	"/fəˈräsədē/ n. the state or quality of being ferocious. ""the ferocity of the storm caught them by surprise"" synonyms: savagery, brutality, barbarity, fierceness, violence, bloodthirstiness, murderousness"
collate	/ˈkōˌlāt/ v. collect and combine (texts, information, or sets of figures) in proper order. synonyms: collect, gather, accumulate, assemble
overture	"/ˈōvərˌCHo͝or/ n. an introduction to something more substantial. ""the talks were no more than an overture to a long debate"" synonyms: preliminary, prelude, introduction, lead-in, precursor, start, beginning ""the overture to a long debate""   n. an approach or proposal made to someone with the aim of opening negotiations or establishing a relationship. ""Coleen listened to his overtures of love"" synonyms: (opening) move, approach, advances, feeler, signal, proposal, proposition ""peace overtures"""
impasse	"/ˈimˌpas/ n. a situation in which no progress is possible, especially because of disagreement; a deadlock. ""the current political impasse"" synonyms: deadlock, dead end, stalemate, checkmate, standoff"
cusp	"/kəsp/ n. a pointed end where two curves meet, in particular.   n. a point of transition between two different states. ""those on the cusp of adulthood"""
phantasmagoria	"/ˌfanˌtazməˈɡôrēə/ n. a sequence of real or imaginary images like those seen in a dream. ""what happened next was a phantasmagoria of horror and mystery"""
febrile	"/ˈfēˌbrīl/ adj. having or showing the symptoms of a fever. ""a febrile illness"" synonyms: feverish, hot, burning, flushed, sweating ""the febrile patients were given intravenous fluids""   adj. having or showing a great deal of nervous excitement or energy. ""a febrile imagination"""
culminate	"/ˈkəlməˌnāt/ v. reach a climax or point of highest development. ""the tensions and disorders which culminated in World War II"" synonyms: come to a climax, come to a head, peak, climax, reach a pinnacle ""her book culminated a research project on the symmetry studies of Escher"""
smite	"/smīt/ v. strike with a firm blow. ""he smites the water with his sword""   v. be strongly attracted to someone or something. ""she was so smitten with the boy"""
malaprop	/ˈmaləˌpräp/n. the mistaken use of a word in place of a similar-sounding one, often with unintentionally amusing effect, as in, for example, “dance a flamingo ” (instead of flamenco). synonyms: wrong word, solecism, misuse, misapplication, infelicity, Freudian slip, blunder
schadenfreude	/ˈSHädənˌfroidə/ n. pleasure derived by someone from another person's misfortune.
fruition	"/fro͞oˈiSH(ə)n/ n. the point at which a plan or project is realized. ""the plans have come to fruition sooner than expected""   n. the realization of a plan or project. ""new methods will come with the fruition of that research"" synonyms: fulfillment, realization, actualization, materialization, achievement, attainment, accomplishment, resolution"
stench	"/sten(t)SH/ n. a strong and very unpleasant smell. ""the stench of rotting fish"" synonyms: stink, reek, whiff, fetor, funk ""the stench from the basement was vile"""
derail	"/dēˈrāl/ v. cause (a train or trolley car) to leave its tracks accidentally. ""a train was derailed after it collided with a herd of cattle""   v. obstruct (a process) by diverting it from its intended course. ""the plot is seen by some as an attempt to derail the negotiations"""
cranky	"/ˈkraNGkē/ adj. ill-tempered; irritable. ""he was bored and cranky after eight hours of working""   adj. (of a machine) working badly; shaky. ""the cranky elevator breaks down periodically"""
chirp	"/CHərp/ v. (typically of a small bird or an insect) utter a short, sharp, high-pitched sound. ""outside, the crickets chirped monotonously"" synonyms: tweet, twitter, cheep, peep, chitter, chirrup, chirr"
panoply	"/ˈpanəplē/ n. a complete or impressive collection of things. ""a deliciously inventive panoply of insults"" synonyms: array, range, collection ""the full panoply of U.S. military might""   n. a splendid display. ""all the panoply of Western religious liturgy"" synonyms: trappings, regalia"
ramification	"/ˌraməfəˈkāSH(ə)n/ n. a consequence of an action or event, especially when complex or unwelcome. ""any change is bound to have legal ramifications"" synonyms: consequence, result, aftermath, outcome, effect, upshot   n. a subdivision of a complex structure or process perceived as comparable to a tree's branches. ""an extended family with its ramifications of neighboring in-laws"""
revamp	"/rēˈvamp/ v. give new and improved form, structure, or appearance to. ""an attempt to revamp the museum's image"" synonyms: renovate, redecorate, refurbish, recondition, rehabilitate, overhaul, make over"
exigency	"/eɡˈzijənsē/ n. an urgent need or demand. ""women worked long hours when the exigencies of the family economy demanded it"" synonyms: need, demand, requirement, necessity"
glom	"/ɡläm/ v. steal. ""I thought he was about to glom my wallet"""
swaddle	"/ˈswädl/ v. wrap (someone, especially a baby) in garments or cloth. ""she swaddled the baby tightly"""
consulate	/ˈkänsələt/ n. the place or building in which a consul's duties are carried out.
consul	"/ˈkänsəl/ n. an official appointed by a government to live in a foreign city and protect and promote the government's citizens and interests there. synonyms: ambassador, diplomat, chargé d'affaires, attaché, envoy, emissary, plenipotentiary ""he was posing as the French consul"""
unfazed	"/ˌənˈfāzd/ adj. not disconcerted or perturbed. ""the protestors were unfazed by the prospect of arrest"" synonyms: calm, unruffled, unperturbed, untroubled, poised, relaxed, self-possessed, nonplussed, together, laid-back ""we thought the news would upset him, but he seemed unfazed"""
chafe	"/CHāf/ v. (of something restrictive or too tight) make (a part of the body) sore by rubbing against it. synonyms: abrade, graze, rub against, gall, scrape, scratch; excoriate ""the collar chafed his neck""   v. rub (a part of the body) to restore warmth or sensation."
cadet	"/kəˈdet/ n. a young trainee in the armed services or police force. ""an air force cadet"""
reprieve	"/rəˈprēv/ v. cancel or postpone the punishment of (someone, especially someone condemned to death). ""under the new regime, prisoners under sentence of death were reprieved"" synonyms: grant a stay of execution to, cancel/postpone/commute/remit someone's punishment   n. abandon or postpone plans to close or put an end to (something). ""the threatened pits could be reprieved"" synonyms: save, rescue, grant a stay of execution to, give a respite to ""the accident and emergency unit has also been reprieved"""
caveat	/ˈkavēˌat/ n. a warning or proviso of specific stipulations, conditions, or limitations. synonyms: warning, caution, admonition
nuptial	"/ˈnəp(t)SHəl/ n. a wedding. ""the forthcoming nuptials between Richard and Jocelyn"" synonyms: wedding, wedding ceremony, marriage, union ""we attended the young duke's nuptials"""
ruffle	"/ˈrəfəl/ v. disorder or disarrange (someone's hair), typically by running one's hands through it. ""the father laughs and jovially ruffles his son's hair"" synonyms: disarrange, tousle, dishevel, rumple, disorder, mess up, tangle ""he ruffled her hair"""
espionage	/ˈespēəˌnäZH/ n. the practice of spying or of using spies, typically by governments to obtain political and military information. synonyms: spying, infiltration
liability	"/ˌlīəˈbilədē/ n. the state of being responsible for something, especially by law. ""the partners accept unlimited liability for any risks they undertake"" synonyms: accountability, responsibility, legal responsibility, answerability   n. a person or thing whose presence or behavior is likely to cause embarrassment or put one at a disadvantage. ""he has become a political liability"" synonyms: hindrance, encumbrance, burden, handicap, nuisance, inconvenience"
furor	"/ˈfyo͝oˌrôr/ n. an outbreak of public anger or excitement. ""the article raised a furor among mathematicians"" synonyms: commotion, uproar, outcry, fuss, upset, brouhaha, foofaraw, palaver, pother, tempest, agitation, pandemonium, disturbance, hubbub, rumpus, tumult, turmoil"
bicker	"/ˈbikər/ v. argue about petty and trivial matters. ""whenever the phone rings, they bicker over who must answer it"" synonyms: quarrel, argue, squabble, wrangle, fight, disagree, dispute, spar, have words, be at each other's throats, lock horns"
slog	"/släɡ/ v. work hard over a period of time. ""they were slogging away to meet a deadline"" synonyms: work hard, toil, labor, work one's fingers to the bone, work like a Trojan/dog, exert oneself, grind, slave, grub, plow, plod, peg   n. a spell of difficult, tiring work or traveling. ""it would be a hard slog back to the camp"" synonyms: hard work, toil, toiling, labor, effort, exertion, grind, drudgery"
nimble	"/ˈnimbəl/ adj. quick and light in movement or action; agile. ""with a deft motion of her nimble fingers"" synonyms: agile, sprightly, light, spry, lively, quick, graceful, lithe, limber"
subversion	"/səbˈvərSH(ə)n/ n. the undermining of the power and authority of an established system or institution. ""the ruthless subversion of democracy"""
diminutive	"/dəˈminyədiv/ adj. extremely or unusually small. ""a diminutive figure dressed in black"" synonyms: tiny, small, little, petite, elfin, minute, miniature, mini, minuscule, compact, pocket, toy, midget, undersized, short"
fulcrum	"/ˈfəlkrəm/ n. the point on which a lever rests or is supported and on which it pivots.   n. a thing that plays a central or essential role in an activity, event, or situation. ""research is the fulcrum of the academic community"""
spate	"/spāt/ n. a large number of similar things or events appearing or occurring in quick succession. ""a spate of attacks on travelers"" synonyms: series, succession, run, cluster, string, rash, epidemic, outbreak, wave, flurry, rush, flood, deluge, torrent ""a spate of interest in military memorabilia"""
rift	"/rift/ n. a crack, split, or break in something. ""the wind had torn open a rift in the clouds"" synonyms: crack, fault, flaw, split, break, breach, fissure, fracture, cleft, crevice, cavity, opening ""a deep rift in the ice""   n. a serious break in friendly relations. ""their demise caused a rift between the city's town and gown"" synonyms: breach, division, split"
gaunt	/ɡônt/ adj. (of a person) lean and haggard, especially because of suffering, hunger, or age. synonyms: haggard, drawn, thin, lean, skinny, spindly, spare, bony, angular, rawboned, pinched, hollow-cheeked, scrawny, scraggy, as thin as a rail, cadaverous, skeletal, emaciated, skin-and-bones
perpetrate	"/ˈpərpəˌtrāt/ v. carry out or commit (a harmful, illegal, or immoral action). ""a crime has been perpetrated against a sovereign state"" synonyms: commit, carry out, perform, execute, do, effect, bring about, accomplish"
jockey	"/ˈjäkē/ v. struggle by every available means to gain or achieve something. ""both men will be jockeying for the two top jobs"" synonyms: maneuver, ease, edge, work, steer"
notch	"/näCH/ n. an indentation or incision on an edge or surface. ""there was a notch in the end of the arrow for the bowstring""   v. make notches in. ""notched bamboo sticks"" synonyms: nick, cut, score, incise, carve, scratch, slit, gouge, groove, furrow ""notch the plank"""
bulwark	"/ˈbo͝olˌwərk/ n. a defensive wall. synonyms: wall, rampart, fortification, parapet, stockade, palisade, barricade, embankment, earthwork ""ancient bulwarks"""
quintuple	/kwinˈt(y)o͞opəl/ v. increase or cause to increase fivefold.
eponym	/ˈepəˌnim/ n. a person after whom a discovery, invention, place, etc., is named or thought to be named.
unprepossessing	"/ˌənprēpəˈzesiNG/ adj. not particularly attractive or appealing to the eye. ""despite his unprepossessing appearance he had an animal magnetism"""
vaunt	"/vônt/ v. boast about or praise (something), especially excessively. ""the much vaunted information superhighway"" synonyms: boast about, brag about, make much of, crow about, parade, flaunt"
factitious	"/fakˈtiSHəs/ adj. artificially created or developed. ""a largely factitious national identity"" synonyms: bogus, fake, specious, false, counterfeit, fraudulent, spurious, sham, mock, feigned, affected, pretended, contrived, engineered, inauthentic, ersatz"
towering	"/ˈtou(ə)riNG/ adj. extremely tall, especially in comparison with the surroundings. ""Hari looked up at the towering buildings"" synonyms: high, tall, lofty, soaring, sky-high, multistory   adj. of exceptional importance or influence. ""a majestic, towering album"" synonyms: outstanding, preeminent, leading, foremost, finest, top, surpassing, supreme, great, incomparable, unrivaled, unsurpassed, peerless ""a towering intellect"""
fussy	"/ˈfəsē/ adj. (of a person) fastidious about one's needs or requirements; hard to please. ""he is very fussy about what he eats"" synonyms: finicky, particular, overparticular, fastidious, discriminating, selective, dainty   adj. showing excessive or anxious concern about detail. ""Eleanor patted her hair with quick, fussy movements""   adj. full of unnecessary detail or decoration. ""I hate fussy clothes"" synonyms: overelaborate, overdecorated, ornate, fancy, overdone"
zeitgeist	"/ˈzītˌɡīst/ n. the defining spirit or mood of a particular period of history as shown by the ideas and beliefs of the time. ""the story captured the zeitgeist of the late 1960s"""
palpable	"/ˈpalpəb(ə)l/ adj. (of a feeling or atmosphere) so intense as to seem almost tangible. ""a palpable sense of loss"" synonyms: perceptible, perceivable, visible, noticeable, discernible, detectable, observable, tangible, unmistakable, transparent, self-evident   adj. able to be touched or felt. ""the palpable bump at the bridge of the nose"" synonyms: tangible, touchable, noticeable, detectable ""a palpable bump"""
raconteur	/ˌräˌkänˈtər/ n. a person who tells anecdotes in a skillful and amusing way. synonyms: storyteller, teller of tales, spinner of yarns, narrator
stoop	"/sto͞op/ v. bend one's head or body forward and downward. ""he stooped down and reached toward the coin"" synonyms: lower, bend, incline, bow, duck ""he stooped his head""   v. lower one's moral standards so far as to do something reprehensible. ""Craig wouldn't stoop to thieving"" synonyms: lower oneself, sink, descend, resort"
pontificate	"/pänˈtifiˌkāt/ v. express one's opinions in a way considered annoyingly pompous and dogmatic. ""he was pontificating about art and history"" synonyms: hold forth, expound, declaim, preach, lay down the law, sound off, dogmatize, sermonize, moralize, lecture"
heed	"/hēd/ v. pay attention to; take notice of. ""he should have heeded the warnings"" synonyms: pay attention to, take notice of, take note of, pay heed to, attend to, listen to   n. careful attention. ""if he heard, he paid no heed"" synonyms: attention, notice, note, regard"
retraction	"/rəˈtrakSH(ə)n/ n. the action of drawing something back or back in. ""prey are grasped between the jaws upon tongue retraction""   n. a withdrawal of a statement, accusation, or undertaking. ""he issued a retraction of his allegations"""
botch	"/bäCH/ v. carry out (a task) badly or carelessly. ""the ability to take on any task without botching it"" synonyms: bungle, mismanage, mishandle, make a mess of, mess up, make a hash of, muff, fluff, foul up, screw up, flub ""examiners botched the test scores"""
shroud	"/SHroud/ v. cover or envelop so as to conceal from view. ""mountains shrouded by cloud"" synonyms: cover, envelop, veil, cloak, blanket, screen, conceal, hide, mask, obscure ""a mist shrouded the shore"""
allude	"/əˈlo͞od/ v. suggest or call attention to indirectly; hint at. ""she had a way of alluding to Jean but never saying her name"" synonyms: refer to, touch on, suggest, hint at, imply, mention (in passing), make an allusion to ""the prosecutor alluded to Dixon's past"""
blistering	"/ˈblist(ə)riNG/ adj. (of heat) intense. ""the blistering heat of the desert"" synonyms: intense, extreme, ferocious, fierce"
in situ	"/ˌin ˈsīto͞o/ adv. & adj. in its original place. ""mosaics and frescoes have been left in situ"""
spry	"/sprī/ adj. (especially of an old person) active; lively. ""he continued to look spry and active well into his eighties"" synonyms: sprightly, lively, agile, nimble, energetic, active, full of energy, full of vim and vigor, vigorous, spirited, animated, vivacious, frisky, peppy ""isn't Aunt Helen spry for her age?"""
trove	"/trōv/ n. a store of valuable or delightful things. ""the museum's trove of antique treasure"""
unrelenting	"/ˌənrəˈlen(t)iNG/ adj. not yielding in strength, severity, or determination. ""the heat was unrelenting"" synonyms: implacable, inflexible, uncompromising, unyielding, unbending, relentless, determined, dogged, tenacious, steadfast, tireless, indefatigable, unflagging, unshakable, unswerving, unwavering ""an unrelenting opponent"""
inquisitive	"/inˈkwizədiv/ adj. curious or inquiring. ""he was very chatty and inquisitive about everything"""
stringent	"/ˈstrinjənt/ adj. (of regulations, requirements, or conditions) strict, precise, and exacting. ""California's air pollution guidelines are stringent"" synonyms: strict, firm, rigid, rigorous, severe, harsh, tough, tight, exacting, demanding, inflexible, hard and fast ""stringent regulations"""
defile	"/dəˈfīl/ v. sully, mar, or spoil. ""the land was defiled by a previous owner"" synonyms: spoil, sully, mar, impair, debase, degrade antonyms: purify   v. desecrate or profane (something sacred). ""the tomb had been defiled and looted"" synonyms: desecrate, profane, violate antonyms: sanctify"
profane	"/prəˈfān/ adj. relating or devoted to that which is not sacred or biblical; secular rather than religious. ""a talk that tackled topics both sacred and profane"" synonyms: secular, lay, nonreligious, temporal ""subjects both sacred and profane"" antonyms: religious, sacred   adj. (of a person or their behavior) not respectful of orthodox religious practice; irreverent. ""desecration of the temple by profane adolescents"" synonyms: irreverent, irreligious, ungodly, godless, unbelieving, impious, disrespectful, sacrilegious ""a profane man"" antonyms: reverent   v. treat (something sacred) with irreverence or disrespect. ""it was a serious matter to profane a tomb"" synonyms: desecrate, violate, defile, treat sacrilegiously ""invaders profaned our sacred temples"""
blasphemy	"/ˈblasfəmē/ n. the act or offense of speaking sacrilegiously about God or sacred things; profane talk. ""he was detained on charges of blasphemy"" synonyms: profanity, sacrilege, irreligion, irreverence, taking the Lord's name in vain, swearing, curse, cursing, impiety, desecration ""the nuns would punish me at least three times a week for my blasphemy"""
accountability	"/əˌkoun(t)əˈbilədē/ n. the fact or condition of being accountable; responsibility. ""their lack of accountability has corroded public respect"" synonyms: responsibility, liability, answerability ""there must be accountability for the expenditure of every public cent"""
staple	"/ˈstāpəl/ adj. main or important, especially in terms of consumption. ""the staple foods of the poor"" synonyms: main, principal, chief, major, primary, leading, foremost, first, most important, predominant, dominant, (most) prominent, basic, standard, prime, premier ""rice is their staple crop"""
skulduggery	"/ˌskəlˈdəɡ(ə)rē/ n. underhanded or unscrupulous behavior; trickery. ""a firm that investigates commercial skulduggery"" synonyms: trickery, fraudulence, underhandedness, chicanery"
shirk	"/SHərk/ v. avoid or neglect (a duty or responsibility). ""their sole motive is to shirk responsibility and rip off the company"" synonyms: evade, dodge, avoid, get out of, sidestep, shrink from, shun, skip, miss"
scuffle	"/ˈskəfəl/ n. a short, confused fight or struggle at close quarters. ""there were minor scuffles with police"" synonyms: fight, struggle, tussle, brawl, fracas, free-for-all, scrimmage   v. engage in a short, confused fight or struggle at close quarters. ""the teacher noticed two students scuffling in the corridor"" synonyms: fight, struggle, tussle, exchange blows, come to blows, brawl, clash ""demonstrators scuffled with police"""
odds	"/ädz/ n. the chances or likelihood of something happening or being the case. ""the odds are that he is no longer alive"" synonyms: the likelihood is, the probability is, chances are, there's a good chance"
palatable	"/ˈpalədəb(ə)l/ adj. (of food or drink) pleasant to taste. ""a very palatable local red wine"" synonyms: edible, eatable, digestible, tasty, appetizing, flavorful   adj. (of an action or proposal) acceptable or satisfactory. ""a device that made increased taxation more palatable"" synonyms: pleasant, acceptable, pleasing, agreeable, to one's liking ""the truth is not always palatable"""
normative	"/ˈnôrmədiv/ adj. establishing, relating to, or deriving from a standard or norm, especially of behavior. ""negative sanctions to enforce normative behavior"""
munificent	"/myo͞oˈnifəsənt/ adj. (of a gift or sum of money) larger or more generous than is usual or necessary. synonyms: generous, bountiful, openhanded, magnanimous, philanthropic, princely, handsome, lavish, liberal, charitable, big-hearted, beneficent ""a munificent bequest"""
layperson	"/ˈlāˌpərs(ə)n/ n. a person without professional or specialized knowledge in a particular subject. synonyms: layman, nonexpert, nonprofessional, amateur, nonspecialist, dilettante ""engineering sounds highly specialized to the layperson"""
irrevocable	"/əˈrevəkəb(ə)l/ adj. not able to be changed, reversed, or recovered; final. ""an irrevocable step"" synonyms: irreversible, unalterable, unchangeable, immutable, final, binding, permanent, carved in stone; peremptory ""an irrevocable commitment"""
infallible	"/inˈfaləb(ə)l/ adj. incapable of making mistakes or being wrong. ""doctors are not infallible"" synonyms: unerring, unfailing, faultless, flawless, impeccable, perfect, precise, accurate, meticulous, scrupulous ""an infallible sense of timing"""
impervious	"/imˈpərvēəs/ adj. not allowing fluid to pass through. ""an impervious layer of basaltic clay"" synonyms: impermeable, impenetrable, impregnable, waterproof, watertight, water-resistant, repellent   adj. unable to be affected by. ""he worked, apparently impervious to the heat"" synonyms: unaffected by, untouched by, immune to, invulnerable to, insusceptible to, resistant to, indifferent to, heedless of, insensible to, unconscious of, oblivious to; proof against ""he seemed impervious to the chill wind"""
imperative	"/əmˈperədiv/ adj. of vital importance; crucial. ""immediate action was imperative"" synonyms: vitally important, of vital importance, all-important, vital, crucial, critical, essential, necessary, indispensable, urgent   adj. giving an authoritative command; peremptory. ""the bell pealed again, a final imperative call"" synonyms: peremptory, commanding, imperious, authoritative, masterful, dictatorial, magisterial, assertive, firm, insistent ""the imperative note in her voice"""
immolate	/ˈiməˌlāt/ v. kill or offer as a sacrifice, especially by burning.
hypocrite	/ˈhipəˌkrit/n. a person who indulges in hypocrisy. synonyms: pretender, dissembler, deceiver, liar, pietist, sanctimonious person, plaster saint
holistic	/hōˈlistik/ adj. characterized by comprehension of the parts of something as intimately interconnected and explicable only by reference to the whole.
finicky	"/ˈfinikē/ adj. fussy about one's needs or requirements. ""a finicky eater"" synonyms: fussy, fastidious, punctilious, overparticular, difficult, exacting, demanding"
exhilarate	"/iɡˈziləˌrāt/ v. make (someone) feel very happy, animated, or elated. ""the children were exhilarated by a sense of purpose"" synonyms: thrill, excite, intoxicate, elate, delight, enliven, animate, invigorate, energize, vitalize, stimulate"
propensity	"/prəˈpensədē/ n. an inclination or natural tendency to behave in a particular way. ""a propensity for violence"" synonyms: tendency, inclination, predisposition, proneness, proclivity, readiness, liability, disposition, leaning, weakness ""his propensity for giving long speeches"""
elate	"/əˈlāt/ v. make (someone) ecstatically happy. ""I felt elated at beating Dennis"" synonyms: thrilled, delighted, overjoyed, ecstatic, euphoric, very happy, joyous, gleeful, jubilant, beside oneself, exultant, rapturous, in raptures, walking on air, on cloud nine, in seventh heaven, jumping for joy, in transports of delight"
dilatory	"/ˈdiləˌtôrē/ adj. slow to act. ""he had been dilatory in appointing a solicitor"" synonyms: slow, tardy, unhurried, sluggish, sluggardly, snaillike, lazy   adj. intended to cause delay. ""they resorted to dilatory procedural tactics, forcing a postponement of peace talks"" synonyms: delaying, stalling, temporizing, procrastinating, time-wasting, filibustering ""dilatory procedural tactics"""
debilitate	"/dəˈbiləˌtāt/ v. make (someone) weak and infirm. ""a weakness that debilitates him despite his overwhelming physical might""   v. hinder, delay, or weaken. ""hard drugs destroy families and debilitate communities"" synonyms: weaken, enfeeble, enervate, devitalize, sap, drain, exhaust, weary, fatigue, prostrate"
canard	"/kəˈnär(d)/ n. an unfounded rumor or story. ""the old canard that LA is a cultural wasteland"""
bravado	/brəˈväˌdō/ n. a bold manner or a show of boldness intended to impress or intimidate. synonyms: boldness, swaggering, bluster
appraise	"/əˈprāz/ v. assess the value or quality of. ""she stealthily appraised him in a pocket mirror"" synonyms: assess, evaluate, judge, rate, gauge, review, consider"
beholden	"/bəˈhōld(ə)n/ adj. owing thanks or having a duty to someone in return for help or a service. ""I don't like to be beholden to anybody"" synonyms: indebted, in someone's debt, obligated, under an obligation"
clairvoyant	"/ˌklerˈvoiənt/ adj. having or exhibiting an ability to perceive events in the future or beyond normal sensory contact. ""he didn't tell me about it and I'm not clairvoyant"" synonyms: psychic, telepathic, visionary, oracular"
clamorous	"/ˈklamərəs/ adj. making a loud and confused noise. ""a jostling, clamorous mob"" synonyms: noisy, loud, vocal, vociferous, raucous, rowdy"
curt	"/kərt/ adj. rudely brief. ""his reply was curt"" synonyms: terse, brusque, abrupt, clipped, blunt, short, monosyllabic, summary"
divest	"/dəˈvest/ v. deprive (someone) of power, rights, or possessions. ""men are unlikely to be divested of power without a struggle"" synonyms: deprive of, strip of, dispossess of, rob of, cheat out of, trick out of ""he intends to divest you of your power"""
doldrums	"/ˈdōldrəmz/ n. a state or period of inactivity, stagnation, or depression. ""the mortgage market has been in the doldrums for three years"" synonyms: depression, melancholy, gloom, gloominess, downheartedness, dejection, despondency, low spirits, despair"
fallacious	"/fəˈlāSHəs/ adj. based on a mistaken belief. ""fallacious arguments"" synonyms: erroneous, false, untrue, wrong, incorrect, flawed, inaccurate, mistaken, misinformed, misguided"
forage	"/ˈfôrij/ v. (of a person or animal) search widely for food or provisions.   ""the birds forage for aquatic invertebrates, insects, and seeds""   v. obtain (food or provisions) by searching.   ""a girl foraging grass for oxen""     v. search (a place) so as to obtain food. ""units that were foraging a particular area"" synonyms:hunt, hunt around, search, look about/around/round, cast about/around/round, rummage (about/around/round), ferret (about/around), root about/around, scratch about/around, nose around/about/round, scour, look high and low"
ingest	/inˈjest/ v. take (food, drink, or another substance) into the body by swallowing or absorbing it. synonyms: consume, swallow, take in, eat, devour, imbibe, drink
insubordinate	"/ˌinsəˈbôrd(ə)nət/ adj. defiant of authority; disobedient to orders. ""an insubordinate attitude"" synonyms: disobedient, unruly, wayward, errant, badly behaved, disorderly, undisciplined, delinquent, troublesome, rebellious, defiant, recalcitrant, uncooperative, willful, intractable, unmanageable, uncontrollable"
jaundiced	"/ˈjôndəst/ adj. affected by bitterness, resentment, or envy. ""they looked on politicians with a jaundiced eye"" synonyms: bitter, resentful, cynical, soured, disenchanted, disillusioned, disappointed, pessimistic, skeptical, distrustful, suspicious, misanthropic"
labyrinthine	"/ˌlab(ə)ˈrinTHin/ adj. (of a network) like a labyrinth; irregular and twisting. ""labyrinthine streets and alleys"" synonyms: mazelike, winding, twisting, serpentine, meandering, wandering, rambling ""labyrinthine corridors"""
lucubrate	/ˈlo͞ok(y)əˌbrāt/ v. write or study, especially by night.
ludicrous	"/ˈlo͞odəkrəs/ adj. so foolish, unreasonable, or out of place as to be amusing; ridiculous. ""it's ludicrous that I have been fined"" synonyms: absurd, ridiculous, farcical, laughable, risible, preposterous, foolish, mad, insane, idiotic, stupid, inane, silly, asinine, nonsensical ""a ludicrous idea"""
makeshift	"/ˈmākˌSHift/ adj. serving as a temporary substitute; sufficient for the time being. ""arranging a row of chairs to form a makeshift bed"" synonyms: temporary, provisional, interim, stopgap, make-do, standby, rough and ready, improvised, ad hoc, extempore, jury-rigged, jerry-built, thrown together, cobbled together ""we stayed dry under some makeshift shelter"""
mercenary	"/ˈmərsəˌnerē/ adj. (of a person or their behavior) primarily concerned with making money at the expense of ethics. ""she's nothing but a mercenary little gold digger"" synonyms: money-oriented, grasping, greedy, acquisitive, avaricious, covetous, bribable, venal, materialistic ""mercenary self-interest"""
mystify	"/ˈmistəˌfī/ v. utterly bewilder or perplex (someone). ""maladies that have mystified and alarmed researchers for over a decade"" synonyms: bewilder, puzzle, perplex, baffle, confuse, confound, bemuse, bedazzle, throw"
negate	"/nəˈɡāt/ v. nullify; make ineffective. ""alcohol negates the effects of the drug"" synonyms: invalidate, nullify, neutralize, cancel"
offish	"/ˈôfiSH/ adj. aloof or distant in manner; not friendly. ""he was being offish with her"""
peddle	"/ˈpedl/ v. try to sell (something, especially small goods) by going from house to house or place to place. ""he peddled art and printing materials around the country"" synonyms: sell, sell from door to door, hawk, tout, vend"
pertain	"/pərˈtān/ v. be appropriate, related, or applicable. ""matters pertaining to the organization of government"" synonyms: concern, relate to, be related to, be connected with, be relevant to, regard, apply to, be pertinent to, refer to, have a bearing on, appertain to, bear on, affect, involve, touch on ""developments pertaining to the economy""   v. be in effect or existence in a specified place or at a specified time. ""their economic circumstances are vastly different from those which pertained in their land of origin"" synonyms: exist, be the order of the day, be the case, prevail ""the economic situation that pertained at that time"""
recuperate	"/rəˈko͞opəˌrāt/ v. recover from illness or exertion. ""she has been recuperating from a shoulder wound"" synonyms: get better, recover, convalesce, get well, regain one's strength/health, get over something ""Amanda went to Jackson Hole for a few weeks to recuperate"""
stratum	"/ˈstrādəm/ n. a layer or a series of layers of rock in the ground. ""a stratum of flint"" synonyms: layer, vein, seam, lode, bed ""a stratum of flint""   n. a level or class to which people are assigned according to their social status, education, or income. ""members of other social strata"" synonyms: level, class, echelon, rank, grade, group, set"
sublime	"/səˈblīm/ adj. of such excellence, grandeur, or beauty as to inspire great admiration or awe. ""Mozart's sublime piano concertos"" synonyms: exalted, elevated, noble, lofty, awe-inspiring, majestic, magnificent, glorious, superb, wonderful, marvelous, splendid"
ungainly	"/ˌənˈɡānlē/ adj. (of a person or movement) awkward; clumsy. ""an ungainly walk"" synonyms: awkward, clumsy, klutzy, ungraceful, graceless, inelegant, gawky, maladroit, gauche, uncoordinated ""they were as ungainly as fifth-grade boys taking dance lessons in a foot of snow"""
unyielding	"/ˌənˈyēldiNG/ adj. (of a person or their behavior) unlikely to be swayed; resolute. ""his unyielding faith"" synonyms: resolute, inflexible, uncompromising, unbending, unshakable, unwavering, immovable, intractable, intransigent, rigid, stiff, firm, determined, dogged, iron, obstinate, stubborn, adamant, obdurate, tenacious, insistent, relentless, implacable, single-minded ""an unyielding taskmaster""   adj. (of a mass or structure) not giving way to pressure; hard or solid. ""the Atlantic hurled its waves at the unyielding rocks"" synonyms: stiff, inflexible, unbending, rigid, firm, hard, solid, tough, tight, compact, compressed, dense ""an unyielding oak door"""
mordant	"/ˈmôrdnt/ adj. (especially of humor) having or showing a sharp or critical quality; biting. ""a mordant sense of humor"" synonyms: caustic, trenchant, biting, cutting, acerbic, sardonic, sarcastic, scathing, acid, sharp, keen"
insatiable	"/inˈsāSHəb(ə)l/ adj. (of an appetite or desire) impossible to satisfy. ""an insatiable hunger for success"""
iniquitous	"/iˈnikwidəs/ adj. grossly unfair and morally wrong. ""an iniquitous tax"""
hitherto	"/ˌhiT͟Hərˈto͞o/ adv. until now or until the point in time under discussion. ""there is a need to replace what has hitherto been a haphazard method of payment"" synonyms: previously, formerly, earlier, before, beforehand"
glut	"/ɡlət/ n. an excessively abundant supply of something. ""there is a glut of cars on the market"" synonyms: surplus, excess, surfeit, superfluity, overabundance, superabundance, oversupply, plethora   v. supply or fill to excess. ""the factories for recycling paper are glutted"" synonyms: overload, cram, cram full, overfill, oversupply, saturate, flood, inundate, deluge, swamp, congest"
gawky	"/ˈɡôkē/ adj. nervously awkward and ungainly. ""a gawky teenager"" synonyms: awkward, ungainly, gangling, maladroit, clumsy, klutzy, inelegant, uncoordinated, graceless, ungraceful"
fringe	"/frinj/ adj. not part of the mainstream; unconventional, peripheral, or extreme. ""fringe theater"""
frantic	"/ˈfran(t)ik/ adj. wild or distraught with fear, anxiety, or other emotion. ""she was frantic with worry"" synonyms: panic-stricken, panicky, beside oneself, at one's wits' end, distraught, overwrought, worked up, agitated, distressed   adj. conducted in a hurried, excited, and chaotic way, typically because of the need to act quickly. ""frantic attempts to resuscitate the girl"""
feral	"/ˈferəl/ adj. (especially of an animal) in a wild state, especially after escape from captivity or domestication. ""a feral cat"" synonyms: wild, untamed, untamable, undomesticated, untrained ""feral dogs"""
exiguous	"/ekˈsiɡyo͞oəs/ adj. very small in size or amount. ""my exiguous musical resources"" synonyms: meager, inadequate, insufficient, small, scanty, paltry, negligible, modest, deficient, miserly, niggardly, beggarly"
ennoble	/əˈnōbəl/ v. give (someone) a noble rank or title. synonyms: dignify, honor, exalt, elevate, raise, enhance, add dignity to, distinguish
downright	"/ˈdounˌrīt/ adj. (of something bad or unpleasant) utter; complete (used for emphasis). ""it's a downright disgrace"" synonyms: complete, total, absolute, utter, thorough, out-and-out, outright, sheer, arrant, pure, real, veritable, categorical, unmitigated, unadulterated, unalloyed, unequivocal ""downright lies""   adv. to an extreme degree; thoroughly. ""he was downright rude"" synonyms: thoroughly, utterly, positively, profoundly, really, completely, totally, entirely"
disconcert	"/ˌdiskənˈsərt/ v. disturb the composure of; unsettle. ""the abrupt change of subject disconcerted her"" synonyms: unsettle, discomfit, throw/catch off balance, take aback, rattle, unnerve, disorient, perturb, disturb, perplex, confuse, bewilder, baffle, fluster, ruffle, shake, upset, agitate, worry, dismay, surprise, take by surprise, startle, put someone off (their game), distract"
disaffection	"/ˌdisəˈfekSH(ə)n/ n. a state or feeling of being dissatisfied with the people in authority and no longer willing to support them. ""there is growing disaffection with large corporations"" synonyms: dissatisfaction, disgruntlement, discontent, restlessness, frustration"
decadent	/ˈdekəd(ə)nt/ adj. characterized by or reflecting a state of moral or cultural decline. synonyms: dissolute, dissipated, degenerate, corrupt, depraved, sinful, unprincipled, immoral
cower	"/ˈkou(ə)r/ v. crouch down in fear. ""children cowered in terror as the shoot-out erupted"" synonyms: cringe, shrink, crouch, recoil, flinch, pull back, draw back, tremble, shake, quake, blench, quail, grovel ""they cowered at the sound of gunfire"""
coercion	"/kōˈərZHən/ n. the practice of persuading someone to do something by using force or threats. synonyms: force, compulsion, constraint, duress, oppression, enforcement, harassment, intimidation, threats, arm-twisting, pressure ""Johnson claims the police used coercion to extract a confession"""
chaste	"/CHāst/ adj. abstaining from extramarital, or from all, sexual intercourse. synonyms: virginal, virgin, intact, maidenly, unmarried, unwed   adj. without unnecessary ornamentation; simple or restrained. ""the dark, chaste interior was lightened by tilework"" synonyms: plain, simple, bare, unadorned, undecorated, unornamented, unembellished, functional, no-frills, austere ""the dark, chaste interior"""
bungle	"/ˈbəNGɡəl/ v. carry out (a task) clumsily or incompetently, leading to failure or an unsatisfactory outcome. ""she had bungled every attempt to help"" synonyms: mishandle, mismanage, mess up, spoil, ruin, blunder"
betoken	"/bəˈtōkən/ v. be a sign of; indicate. ""she wondered if his cold, level gaze betokened indifference or anger""   v. be a warning or indication of (a future event). ""the falling comet betokened the true end of Merlin's powers"" synonyms: indicate, be a sign of, be evidence of, evidence, manifest, mean, signify, denote, represent, show, demonstrate, bespeak"
awash	"/əˈwäSH/ adj. covered or flooded with water, especially seawater or rain. ""the boat rolled violently, its decks awash"" synonyms: flooded, under water, submerged, submersed ""the road was awash"""
avant-garde	"/ˌaväntˈɡärd/ n. new and unusual or experimental ideas, especially in the arts, or the people introducing them. ""works by artists of the Russian avant-garde""   adj. favoring or introducing experimental or unusual ideas. ""a controversial avant-garde composer"" synonyms: innovative, original, experimental, left-field, inventive, ahead of the times, cutting/leading/bleeding edge, new, modern, innovatory, advanced, forward-looking, state-of-the-art, trend-setting, pioneering, progressive, Bohemian, groundbreaking, trailblazing, revolutionary"
autumnal	"/ôˈtəmnəl/ adj. of, characteristic of, or occurring in autumn. ""chilly autumnal weather"""
atrophy	"/ˈatrəfē/ v. (of body tissue or an organ) waste away, typically due to the degeneration of cells, or become vestigial during evolution. ""without exercise, the muscles will atrophy"" synonyms: waste away, become emaciated, wither, shrivel (up), shrink   v. gradually decline in effectiveness or vigor due to underuse or neglect. ""her artistic skills atrophied from lack of use""   n. the process of atrophying or state of having atrophied. ""gastric atrophy"" synonyms: wasting, emaciation, withering, shriveling, shrinking"
acuity	"/əˈkyo͞oədē/ n. sharpness or keenness of thought, vision, or hearing. ""intellectual acuity"""
chancy	"/ˈCHansē/ adj. subject to unpredictable changes and circumstances. ""the screening process was likely to be chancy and unreliable"" synonyms: risky, unpredictable, uncertain, precarious"
catch-all	"/ˈkeCHˌôl/ n. a term or category that includes a variety of different possibilities. ""the stigmatizing catch-all term “schizophrenia.”"""
carrion	/ˈkerēən/ n. the decaying flesh of dead animals.
carouse	"/kəˈrouz/ v. drink plentiful amounts of alcohol and enjoy oneself with others in a noisy, lively way. ""they danced and caroused until the drink ran out"" synonyms: drink and make merry, go on a drinking bout, go on a spree"
cachet	"/kaˈSHā/ n. the state of being respected or admired; prestige. ""no other shipping company had quite the cachet of Cunard"" synonyms: prestige, status, standing, clout, kudos, snob value, stature, preeminence, eminence; street credibility ""for more than fifty years, their winery enjoyed the cachet that others could only envy"""
bludgeon	"/ˈbləjən/ n. a thick stick with a heavy end, used as a weapon. ""a rhetorical bludgeon in the war against liberalism"" synonyms: cudgel, club, stick, truncheon, baton   v. beat (someone) repeatedly with a bludgeon or other heavy object. synonyms: batter, cudgel, club, beat, thrash"
awry	"/əˈrī/ adj. & adv. away from the appropriate, planned, or expected course; amiss. ""many youthful romances go awry"" synonyms: amiss, wrong ""something was awry""   adj. & adv. out of the normal or correct position; askew. ""he was hatless, his silver hair awry"" synonyms: askew, crooked, lopsided, tilted, skewed, skew, to one side, off-center, uneven"
arraign	"/əˈrān/ v. call or bring (someone) before a court to answer a criminal charge. ""her sister was arraigned on attempted murder charges"" synonyms: indict for, prosecute for, put on trial for, bring to trial for, take to court for, lay/file/prefer charges against for, summons for, cite for"
appurtenance	"/əˈpərt(ə)nəns/ n. an accessory or other item associated with a particular activity or style of living. ""all the appurtenances of luxurious travel"" synonyms: accessories, trappings, appendages, accoutrements, equipment, paraphernalia, impedimenta, bits and pieces, things ""artist's studio with appurtenances for rent"""
animadversion	"/ˌanəmadˈvərZH(ə)n/ n. criticism or censure. ""her animadversion against science"""
abreast	"/əˈbrest/ adv. side by side and facing the same way. ""the path was wide enough for two people to walk abreast"" synonyms: in a row, side by side, alongside, level, beside each other, shoulder to shoulder ""they walked three abreast"""
accrue	"/əˈkro͞o/ v. (of sums of money or benefits) be received by someone in regular or increasing amounts over time. ""financial benefits will accrue from restructuring"" synonyms: result from, arise from, follow from, ensue from   v. accumulate or receive (such payments or benefits). synonyms: accumulate, collect, build up, mount up, grow, increase ""interest is added to the account as it accrues"""
acquit	"/əˈkwit/ v. free (someone) from a criminal charge by a verdict of not guilty. ""she was acquitted on all counts"" synonyms: clear, exonerate, find innocent, absolve   v. conduct oneself or perform in a specified way. ""all the young women in the contest acquitted themselves well"" synonyms: behave (oneself), conduct oneself, perform, act ""the boys acquitted themselves well"""
abeyance	"/əˈbāəns/ n. a state of temporary disuse or suspension. ""matters were held in abeyance pending further inquiries"" synonyms: in suspension, in a state of suspension, in a state of dormancy, in a state of uncertainty, in remission"
wherewithal	"/ˈ(h)werwiT͟Hˌôl/ n. the money or other means needed for a particular purpose. ""they lacked the wherewithal to pay"" synonyms: money, cash, capital, finance(s), funds"
vernacular	"/vərˈnakyələr/ n. the language or dialect spoken by the ordinary people in a particular country or region. ""he wrote in the vernacular to reach a larger audience"" synonyms: language, dialect, regional language, regionalisms, patois, parlance"
trespass	"/ˈtrespəs/ v. enter the owner's land or property without permission. ""there is no excuse for trespassing on railroad property"" synonyms: intrude on, encroach on, enter without permission, invade"
toady	"/ˈtōdē/ n. a person who behaves obsequiously to someone important. synonyms: sycophant, brown-noser, lickspittle, flatterer, flunky, lackey, trained seal, doormat, stooge, cringer   v. act in an obsequious way. ""she imagined him toadying to his rich clients"" synonyms: grovel to, ingratiate oneself with, be obsequious to, kowtow to, pander to, crawl to, truckle to, bow and scrape to, curry favor with, make up to, fawn on/over, slaver over, flatter, adulate, suck up to, lick the boots of, butter up"
stilted	"/ˈstiltəd/ adj. (of a manner of talking or writing) stiff and self-conscious or unnatural. ""we made stilted conversation"" synonyms: strained, forced, contrived, constrained, labored, stiff, self-conscious, awkward, unnatural, wooden"
senile	"/ˈsēˌnīl/ adj. (of a person) having or showing the weaknesses or diseases of old age, especially a loss of mental faculties. ""she couldn't cope with her senile husband"" synonyms: doddering, doddery, decrepit, senescent, declining, infirm, feeble"
risible	"/ˈrizəbəl/ adj. such as to provoke laughter. ""a risible scene of lovemaking in a tent"" synonyms: laughable, ridiculous, absurd, comical, comic, amusing, funny, hilarious, humorous, droll, farcical, silly, ludicrous, hysterical"
revile	"/rəˈvīl/ v. criticize in an abusive or angrily insulting manner. ""he was now reviled by the party that he had helped to lead"" synonyms: criticize, censure, condemn, attack, inveigh against, rail against, castigate, lambaste, denounce"
rehabilitate	"/ˌrē(h)əˈbiləˌtāt/ v. restore (someone) to health or normal life by training and therapy after imprisonment, addiction, or illness. ""helping to rehabilitate former criminals"" synonyms: restore to normality, reintegrate, readapt   v. return (something, especially an environmental feature) to its former condition. synonyms: recondition, restore, renovate, refurbish, revamp, overhaul, redevelop, rebuild, reconstruct"
rectitude	"/ˈrektəˌt(y)o͞od/ n. morally correct behavior or thinking; righteousness. ""Maddie is a model of rectitude"" synonyms: righteousness, goodness, virtue, morality, honor, honorableness, integrity, principle, probity, honesty, trustworthiness, uprightness, decency, good character ""not all of his colleagues share his personal frugality and public rectitude"""
ramshackle	"/ˈramˌSHak(ə)l/ adj. (especially of a house or vehicle) in a state of severe disrepair. ""a ramshackle cottage"" synonyms: tumbledown, dilapidated, derelict, decrepit, neglected, run-down, gone to rack and ruin, beat-up, crumbling, decaying"
proscription	"/prōˈskripSH(ə)n/ n. the action of forbidding something; banning. ""the proscription of the party after the 1715 Rebellion"" synonyms: banning, forbidding, prohibition, prohibiting, barring, debarment, vetoing, interdiction, outlawing"
posture	"/ˈpäsCHər/ n. the position in which someone holds their body when standing or sitting. ""he stood in a flamboyant posture with his hands on his hips"" synonyms: bearing, carriage, stance, comportment ""good posture""   n. a particular way of dealing with or considering something; an approach or attitude. ""labor unions adopted a more militant posture in wage negotiations"" synonyms: attitude, stance, standpoint, point of view, opinion, position, frame of mind ""the unions adopted a militant posture""   v. behave in a way that is intended to impress or mislead others. ""a masking of fear with macho posturing"" synonyms: pose, strike an attitude, strut ""Keith postured, flexing his biceps"""
peccadillo	"/ˌpekəˈdilō/ n. a small, relatively unimportant offense or sin. synonyms: misdemeanor, petty offense, indiscretion, lapse, misdeed ""I'm sure we can overlook a few peccadilloes"""
parity	"/ˈperədē/ n. the state or condition of being equal, especially regarding status or pay. ""parity of incomes between rural workers and those in industrial occupations"" synonyms: equality, equivalence, uniformity, consistency, correspondence, congruity, levelness, unity, coequality ""we strive for a parity of wages"""
overbearing	"/ˌōvərˈberiNG/ adj. unpleasantly or arrogantly domineering. ""his overbearing, sometimes ruthless desire to succeed"" synonyms: domineering, dominating, autocratic, tyrannical, despotic, oppressive, high-handed, bullying ""his overbearing wife"""
oddball	"/ˈädˌbôl/ adj. strange; bizarre. ""oddball training methods"""
numinous	"/ˈn(y)o͞omənəs/ adj. having a strong religious or spiritual quality; indicating or suggesting the presence of a divinity. ""the strange, numinous beauty of this ancient landmark"" synonyms: spiritual, religious, divine, holy, sacred"
derelict	"/ˈderəˌlikt/ adj. in a very poor condition as a result of disuse and neglect. ""the cities were derelict and dying"" synonyms: damned, doomed, lost, condemned to hell    n. a person without a home, job, or property. ""derelicts who could fit all their possessions in a paper bag"" synonyms: tramp, vagrant, vagabond, down and out, homeless person, drifter"
console	"/kənˈsōl/ v. comfort (someone) at a time of grief or disappointment. ""she tried to console him but he pushed her gently away"" synonyms: comfort, solace, condole with, give condolences to"
consign	"/kənˈsīn/ v. deliver (something) to a person's custody, typically in order for it to be sold. ""he consigned three paintings to Sotheby's"" synonyms: assign, allocate, place, put, remit, commit ""the picture was consigned to the gallery""   v. assign; commit decisively or permanently. ""she consigned the letter to the wastebasket"" synonyms: send to, deliver to, hand over to, turn over to, sentence to"
commiserate	"/kəˈmizəˌrāt/ v. express or feel sympathy or pity; sympathize. ""she went over to commiserate with Rose on her unfortunate circumstances"" synonyms: offer sympathy to, be sympathetic to, offer condolences to, condole with, sympathize with, empathize with, feel pity for, feel sorry for, feel for"
collegiate	"/kəˈlēj(ē)ət/ adj. belonging or relating to a college or its students. ""collegiate life"""
coddle	"/ˈkädl/ v. treat in an indulgent or overprotective way. ""I was coddled and cosseted"" synonyms: pamper, cosset, mollycoddle"
clinch	"/klin(t)SH/ v. confirm or settle (a contract or bargain). ""to clinch a business deal"" synonyms: secure, settle, conclude, close, pull off, bring off, complete, confirm, seal, finalize   v. grapple at close quarters, especially (of boxers) so as to be too closely engaged for full-arm blows. synonyms: grapple, wrestle, struggle, scuffle ""the boxers clinched"""
clangor	"/ˈklaNGər/ n. a continuous loud banging or ringing sound. ""he went deaf because of the clangor of the steam hammers"""
cherubic	"/CHəˈro͞obik/ adj. having the childlike innocence or plump prettiness of a cherub. ""a round, cherubic face"" synonyms: angelic, sweet, cute, adorable, appealing, lovable"
objurgate	/ˈäbjərˌɡāt/ v. rebuke severely; scold.
mulish	"/ˈmyo͞oliSH/ adj. resembling or likened to a mule in being stubborn. ""Belinda's face took on a mulish expression"" synonyms: obstinate, stubborn, pigheaded, recalcitrant, intransigent, unyielding, inflexible, bullheaded, stiff-necked ""they're both too mulish to ever resolve anything"""
nepotism	"/ˈnepəˌtizəm/ n. the practice among those with power or influence of favoring relatives or friends, especially by giving them jobs. synonyms: favoritism, preferential treatment, the old boy network, looking after one's own, bias, partiality, partisanship ""hiring my daughter was not nepotism—it was just good business"""
materialize	"/məˈtirēəˌlīz/ v. become actual fact; happen. ""the assumed savings may not materialize"" synonyms: happen, occur, come about, take place, come into being, transpire"
jolt	"/jōlt/ v. push or shake (someone or something) abruptly and roughly. ""a surge in the crowd behind him jolted him forward"" synonyms: push, thrust, jar, bump, knock, bang"
jaded	"/ˈjādəd/ adj. tired, bored, or lacking enthusiasm, typically after having had too much of something. ""meals to tempt the most jaded appetites"" synonyms: surfeited, sated, satiated, glutted"
impute	"/imˈpyo͞ot/ v. represent (something, especially something undesirable) as being done, caused, or possessed by someone; attribute. ""the crimes imputed to Richard"" synonyms: attribute to, ascribe to, assign to, credit to"
impolitic	"/imˈpäləˌtik/ adj. failing to possess or display prudence; unwise. ""it was impolitic to pay the slightest tribute to the enemy"" synonyms: imprudent, unwise, injudicious, incautious, irresponsible"
immanent	"/ˈimənənt/ adj. existing or operating within; inherent. ""the protection of liberties is immanent in constitutional arrangements"""
hoard	"/hôrd/ n. a stock or store of money or valued objects, typically one that is secret or carefully guarded. ""he came back to rescue his little hoard of gold"" synonyms: cache, stockpile, stock, store, collection, supply, reserve, reservoir, fund, accumulation   v. amass (money or valued objects) and hide or store away. ""thousands of antiques hoarded by a compulsive collector"" synonyms: stockpile, store, store up, stock up on, put aside, put by, lay by, lay up, set aside, stow away, buy up"
hew	"/hyo͞o/ v. chop or cut (something, especially wood) with an ax, pick, or other tool. ""we have finished hauling and hewing timber"" synonyms: chop, hack, cut, lop, ax, cleave, split; fell ""the logs are freshly hewn"""
haggle	"/ˈhaɡəl/ v. dispute or bargain persistently, especially over the cost of something. ""the two sides are haggling over television rights"" synonyms: barter, bargain, negotiate, dicker, quibble, wrangle"
guzzle	"/ˈɡəzəl/ v. eat or drink (something) greedily. ""we guzzle our beer and devour our pizza"" synonyms: gulp down, swallow, quaff, down, swill"
gossamer	"/ˈɡäsəmər/ n. a fine, filmy substance consisting of cobwebs spun by small spiders, which is seen especially in autumn. synonyms: cobwebs   n. something very light, thin, and insubstantial or delicate. ""in the light from the table lamp, his hair was blond gossamer"" synonyms: gauzy, gossamery, fine, diaphanous, delicate, filmy, floaty, chiffony, cobwebby, wispy, thin, light, insubstantial, flimsy"
gloat	"/ɡlōt/ v. contemplate or dwell on one's own success or another's misfortune with smugness or malignant pleasure. ""his enemies gloated over his death"" synonyms: delight, relish, take great pleasure, revel, rejoice, glory, exult, triumph, crow"
gild	"/ɡild/ v. cover thinly with gold. synonyms: gold-plate   v. give a specious or false brilliance to. ""they gild the facts until the truth all but vanishes"" synonyms: elaborate, embellish, embroider"
garner	"/ˈɡärnər/ v. gather or collect (something, especially information or approval). ""the police struggled to garner sufficient evidence"" synonyms: gather, collect, accumulate, amass, assemble, reap ""Edward garnered ideas from his travels"""
gaping	"/ˈɡāpiNG/ adj. (of a hole, wound, etc.) wide open. ""there was a gaping hole in the wall"" synonyms: cavernous, yawning, wide, broad"
fusty	"/ˈfəstē/ adj. smelling stale, damp, or stuffy. ""the fusty odor of decay"" synonyms: stale, musty, dusty   adj. old-fashioned in attitude or style. ""grammar in the classroom became a fusty notion"" synonyms: old-fashioned, out of date, outdated, behind the times, antediluvian, backward-looking"
flummery	"/ˈfləmərē/ n. empty compliments; nonsense. ""she hated the flummery of public relations"""
flaccid	"/ˈfla(k)səd/ adj. (of part of the body) soft and hanging loosely or limply, especially so as to look or feel unpleasant. ""she took his flaccid hand in hers"" synonyms: soft, loose, flabby, slack, lax   adj. lacking force or effectiveness. ""the flaccid leadership campaign was causing concern"" synonyms: lackluster, lifeless, listless, uninspiring, unanimated, tame, dull, vapid ""his play seemed flaccid"""
flabbergast	"/ˈflabərˌɡast/ v. surprise (someone) greatly; astonish. ""this news has left me totally flabbergasted"""
fixate	"/ˈfikˌsāt/ v. cause (someone) to acquire an obsessive attachment to someone or something. ""she has for some time been fixated on photography"" synonyms: obsessed with, preoccupied with, obsessive about"
fealty	"/ˈfē(ə)ltē/ n. formal acknowledgment of this. ""a property for which she did fealty"""
extrusive	/ikˈstro͞osiv/ adj. relating to or denoting rock that has been extruded at the earth's surface as lava or other volcanic deposits.
expostulate	"/ikˈspäsCHəˌlāt/ v. express strong disapproval or disagreement. ""I expostulated with him in vain"" synonyms: remonstrate with, disagree with, argue with, take issue with, protest against, reason against, express disagreement with, raise objections to, rail against ""Jim expostulated with the teacher's opinion to no avail"""
execrable	"/ˈeksəkrəb(ə)l/ adj. extremely bad or unpleasant. ""execrable cheap wine"" synonyms: appalling, atrocious, lamentable, egregious, awful, dreadful, terrible"
ethos	"/ˈēTHäs/ n. the characteristic spirit of a culture, era, or community as manifested in its beliefs and aspirations. ""a challenge to the ethos of the 1960s"" synonyms: spirit, character, atmosphere, climate, mood, feeling, tenor, essence"
erstwhile	"/ˈərstˌ(h)wīl/ adj. former. ""his erstwhile rivals"" synonyms: former, old, past, one-time, sometime, ex-, late, then"
ecumenical	"/ˌekyəˈmenək(ə)l/ adj. representing a number of different Christian churches. synonyms: nondenominational, universal, catholic, latitudinarian, all-embracing, all-inclusive ""the local churches are sponsoring an ecumenical service on the green"""
dumbfound	"/ˈdəmˌfound/ v. greatly astonish or amaze. ""they were dumbfounded at his popularity"" synonyms: astonish, astound, amaze, stagger, surprise, startle, stun, confound, stupefy, daze, take aback, stop someone in their tracks, strike dumb, leave open-mouthed, leave aghast"
conjunct	/kənˈjəNGkt/ adj. joined together, combined, or associated.
disjunctive	"/disˈjəNGktiv/ adj. lacking connection. ""the novel's disjunctive detail"""
disgorge	"/disˈɡôrj/ v. cause to pour out. ""the combine disgorged a steady stream of grain"" synonyms: pour out, discharge, eject, throw out, emit, expel, spit out, spew out, belch forth, spout"
predestine	"/prēˈdestin/ v. determine (an outcome or course of events) in advance by divine will or fate. ""she was certain that fate was with her and everything was predestined"" synonyms: preordained, ordained, predetermined, destined, fated ""I find it hard to believe that our lives are predestined"""
reciprocity	/ˌresəˈpräsədē/ n. the practice of exchanging things with others for mutual benefit, especially privileges granted by one country or organization to another.
finesse	"/fəˈnes/ n. intricate and refined delicacy. ""orchestral playing of great finesse"" synonyms: skill, skillfulness, expertise, subtlety, flair, panache, elan, polish, artistry, virtuosity, mastery ""masterly finesse""   v. do (something) in a subtle and delicate manner. ""his third shot, which he attempted to finesse, failed by a fraction"""
incompetence	"/inˈkämpədəns/ n. inability to do something successfully; ineptitude. ""allegations of professional incompetence"" synonyms: ineptitude, ineptness, inability, lack of ability, lack of skill, lack of proficiency"
volition	"/vōˈliSH(ə)n/ n. the faculty or power of using one's will. ""without conscious volition she backed into her office"""
vile	"/vīl/ adj. extremely unpleasant. ""he has a vile temper"" synonyms: foul, nasty, unpleasant, bad, disagreeable, horrid, horrible, dreadful, abominable, atrocious, offensive, obnoxious, odious, unsavory, repulsive, disgusting, distasteful, loathsome, hateful, nauseating, sickening"
vicissitude	"/vəˈsisəˌt(y)o͞od/ n. a change of circumstances or fortune, typically one that is unwelcome or unpleasant. ""her husband's sharp vicissitudes of fortune"" synonyms: change, alteration, shift, reversal, twist, turn, downturn, variation"
vertiginous	"/vərˈtijənəs/ adj. causing vertigo, especially by being extremely high or steep. ""vertiginous drops to the valleys below"""
untapped	"/ˌənˈtapt/ adj. (of a resource) not yet exploited or used. ""a huge, untapped market for bagels"""
unpremeditated	"/ˌənprēˈmedəˌtādəd/ adj. (of an act, remark, or state) not thought out or planned beforehand. ""it was a totally unpremeditated attack"" synonyms: unplanned, spontaneous, unprepared, impromptu, spur-of-the-moment, unrehearsed, ad lib, improvised, extemporaneous"
undergird	/ˌəndərˈɡərd/ v. secure or fasten from the underside, especially by a rope or chain passed underneath.
turgid	"/ˈtərjəd/ adj. swollen and distended or congested. ""a turgid and fast-moving river"" synonyms: swollen, distended, tumescent, engorged, bloated, tumid ""the tissues become turgid""   adj. (of language or style) tediously pompous or bombastic. ""some turgid verses on the death of Prince Albert"" synonyms: bombastic, pompous, overblown, inflated, tumid, high-flown, puffed up, affected, pretentious, grandiose, florid, ornate, grandiloquent, orotund"
transmogrify	"/transˈmäɡrəˌfī/ v. transform, especially in a surprising or magical manner. ""the cucumbers that were ultimately transmogrified into pickles"""
trammel	"/ˈtraməl/ v. deprive of freedom of action. ""those less trammeled by convention than himself"" synonyms: restrict, restrain, constrain, hamper, confine, hinder, handicap, obstruct, impede, hold back, tie down, hamstring, shackle, fetter"
temerarious	/ˌteməˈrerēəs/ adj. reckless; rash.
somnolent	/ˈsämnələnt/ adj. sleepy; drowsy. synonyms: sleepy, drowsy, tired, languid, dozy, groggy, lethargic, sluggish, enervated, torpid
snare	"/sner/ n. a trap for catching birds or animals, typically one having a noose of wire or cord. synonyms: trap, gin, net, noose ""the hare was caught in a snare""   v. catch (a bird or mammal) in a snare. synonyms: trap, catch, net, bag, ensnare, entrap ""game birds were snared"""
skittish	"/ˈskidiSH/ adj. (of an animal, especially of a horse) excitable or easily scared. ""a skittish chestnut mare"" synonyms: nervous, anxious, on edge, excitable, restive, skittery, jumpy, jittery, high-strung ""going to the dentist makes me skittish""   adj. (of a person) playfully frivolous or unpredictable. ""my skittish and immature mother"""
skinflint	/ˈskinˌflint/ n. a person who spends as little money as possible; a miser. synonyms: miser, penny-pincher, Scrooge, pinchpenny
roundabout	"/ˈroundəˌbout/ adj. not following a short direct route; circuitous. ""we need to take a roundabout route to throw off any pursuit"" synonyms: circuitous, indirect, meandering, serpentine, tortuous ""a roundabout route"""
reconnoiter	"/ˌrēkəˈnoidər/ v. make a military observation of (a region). ""they reconnoitered the beach some weeks before the landing"" synonyms: survey, make a reconnaissance of, explore"
raucous	"/ˈrôkəs/ adj. making or constituting a disturbingly harsh and loud noise. ""raucous youths"" synonyms: harsh, strident, screeching, piercing, shrill, grating, discordant, dissonant"
purview	"/ˈpərˌvyo͞o/ n. the scope of the influence or concerns of something. ""such a case might be within the purview of the legislation""   n. a range of experience or thought. ""social taboos meant that little information was likely to come within the purview of women generally"""
pronounced	"/prəˈnounst/ adj. very noticeable or marked; conspicuous. ""he had a pronounced squint"" synonyms: noticeable, marked, strong, conspicuous, striking, distinct, prominent, unmistakable, obvious, recognizable, identifiable ""a pronounced German accent"""
proffer	"/ˈpräfər/ v. hold out (something) to someone for acceptance; offer. ""he proffered his resignation"" synonyms: offer, tender, submit, extend, volunteer, suggest, propose, put forward; hold out"
procreate	"/ˈprōkrēˌāt/ v. (of people or animals) produce young; reproduce. ""species that procreate by copulation"" synonyms: produce offspring, reproduce, multiply, propagate, breed ""the biological imperative to procreate"""
petrify	"/ˈpetrəˌfī/ v. change (organic matter) into a stony concretion by encrusting or replacing its original substance with a calcareous, siliceous, or other mineral deposit. synonyms: ossified, fossilized, calcified ""petrified remains of prehistoric animals""   v. make (someone) so frightened that they are unable to move or think. ""his icy controlled quietness petrified her"" synonyms: terrified, terror-stricken, horrified, scared/frightened out of one's wits, scared/frightened to death"
pathos	"/ˈpāˌTHäs/ n. a quality that evokes pity or sadness. ""the actor injects his customary humor and pathos into the role"" synonyms: poignancy, tragedy, sadness, pitifulness, piteousness, pitiableness ""the pathos of Antoine's predicament"""
overwrought	"/ˌōvəˈrôt/ adj. in a state of nervous excitement or anxiety. ""she was too overwrought to listen to reason"" synonyms: tense, agitated, nervous, on edge, edgy, keyed up, worked up, high-strung, neurotic, overexcited, beside oneself, distracted, distraught, frantic, hysterical   adj. (of a piece of writing or a work of art) too elaborate or complicated in design or construction. synonyms: overelaborate, overornate, overblown, overdone, contrived, overworked, strained ""the painting is overwrought"""
facade	"/fəˈsäd/ n. the face of a building, especially the principal front that looks onto a street or open space. synonyms: front, frontage, face, elevation, exterior, outside ""a vinyl-sided facade""   n. an outward appearance that is maintained to conceal a less pleasant or creditable reality. ""her flawless public facade masked private despair"" synonyms: show, front, appearance, pretense, simulation, affectation, semblance, illusion, act, masquerade, charade, mask, cloak, veil, veneer ""a facade of bonhomie"""
vacancy	"/ˈvākənsē/ n. an unoccupied position or job. ""a vacancy for a shorthand typist"" synonyms: opening, position, post, job, opportunity, place ""there are vacancies for computer technicians""   n. empty space. ""Cathy stared into vacancy, seeing nothing"""
untrammeled	"/ˌənˈtraməld/ adj. not deprived of freedom of action or expression; not restricted or hampered. ""a mind untrammeled by convention"""
craven	"/ˈkrāvən/ adj. contemptibly lacking in courage; cowardly. ""a craven abdication of his moral duty"" synonyms: cowardly, lily-livered, faint-hearted, chicken-hearted, spineless, timid, timorous, fearful, pusillanimous, weak, feeble"
sybarite	"/ˈsibəˌrīt/ n. a person who is self-indulgent in their fondness for sensuous luxury. synonyms: hedonist, sensualist, voluptuary, libertine, pleasure-seeker, epicure, bon vivant, bon viveur ""an exclusive resort that caters to wealthy sybarites"""
drab	"/drab/ adj. lacking brightness or interest; drearily dull. ""the landscape was drab and gray"" synonyms: colorless, gray, dull, washed out, muted, lackluster"
misnomer	"/misˈnōmər/ n. a wrong or inaccurate name or designation. ""“king crab” is a misnomer—these creatures are not crustaceans at all"" synonyms: inaccurate name/label/designation, wrong name/label/designation, inappropriate name/label/designation ""scientists say “killer whale” is a misnomer for what is one of the gentlest marine creatures known to man"""
quaint	"/kwānt/ adj. attractively unusual or old-fashioned. ""quaint country cottages"" synonyms: picturesque, charming, sweet, attractive, old-fashioned, old-world, cunning"
decamp	"/dəˈkamp/ v. depart suddenly or secretly, especially to relocate one's business or household in another area. ""now he has decamped to Hollywood"" synonyms: abscond, make off, run off/away, flee, bolt, take flight, disappear, vanish, steal away, sneak away, escape, make a run for it, leave, depart"
con	"/kän/ v. persuade (someone) to do or believe something, typically by use of a deception. ""I conned him into giving me your home number"" synonyms: swindle, defraud, cheat, trick, fleece, dupe, deceive, rook, exploit, squeeze, milk, bleed   n. an instance of deceiving or tricking someone. ""a con artist"" synonyms: swindle, deception, trick, racket, bit of sharp practice, fraud"
maddening	"/ˈmad(ə)niNG/ adj. extremely annoying; infuriating. ""his maddening stories"""
hiss	"/his/ v. express disapproval of (someone) by hissing. ""he was hissed off the stage"" synonyms: jeer, catcall, boo, heckle, whistle, hoot   v. make a sharp sibilant sound as of the letter s. ""the escaping gas was now hissing"" synonyms: fizz, fizzle, whistle, wheeze"
renunciation	"/rəˌnənsēˈāSH(ə)n/ n. the formal rejection of something, typically a belief, claim, or course of action. ""entry into the priesthood requires renunciation of marriage"" synonyms: abstention from, refraining from, going without, giving up, eschewal of"
gibber	"/ˈjibər/ v. speak rapidly and unintelligibly, typically through fear or shock. ""they shrieked and gibbered as flames surrounded them"" synonyms: prattle, babble, ramble, drivel, jabber, gabble, burble, twitter, mutter, mumble"
preternatural	"/ˌprēdərˈnaCH(ə)rəl/ adj. beyond what is normal or natural. ""autumn had arrived with preternatural speed"" synonyms: extraordinary, exceptional, unusual, uncommon, singular, unprecedented, remarkable, phenomenal, abnormal, inexplicable, unaccountable"
graze	"/ɡrāz/ v. (of cattle, sheep, etc.) eat grass in a field. ""cattle graze on the open meadows"" synonyms: feed, eat, nibble, browse ""the deer grazed"""
rampant	"/ˈrampənt/ adj. (especially of something unwelcome or unpleasant) flourishing or spreading unchecked. ""political violence was rampant"" synonyms: uncontrolled, unrestrained, unchecked, unbridled, widespread"
grade	"/ɡrād/ v. arrange in or allocate to grades; class or sort. ""they are graded according to thickness"" synonyms: classify, class, categorize, bracket, sort, group, arrange, pigeonhole   v. pass gradually from one level, especially a shade of color, into another. ""the sky graded from blue to white on the horizon"" synonyms: blend, shade, merge, pass ""the colors grade into one another"""
acquiesce	"/ˌakwēˈes/  v. accept something reluctantly but without protest. ""Sara acquiesced in his decision"" synonyms: permit, consent to, agree to, allow, assent to, give one's consent to, accept, concur with, give one's assent to, give one's blessing to, say yes to, give the nod to, give one's approval to"
taxonomy	/takˈsänəmē/ n. the branch of science concerned with classification, especially of organisms; systematics.
toxicology	/ˌtäksəˈkäləjē/ n. the branch of science concerned with the nature, effects, and detection of poisons.
blasé	"/bläˈzā/ adj. unimpressed or indifferent to something because one has experienced or seen it so often before. ""she was becoming quite blasé about the dangers"" synonyms: indifferent, unconcerned, uncaring, casual, nonchalant, offhand, uninterested, apathetic, unimpressed, unmoved, surfeited, jaded, unresponsive, phlegmatic ""these children have learned to be blasé about the sound of gunfire"""
maculate	/ˈmakyəˌlāt/ v. mark with a spot or spots; stain.
dabble	"/ˈdabəl/ v. immerse (one's hands or feet) partially in water and move them around gently. ""they dabbled their feet in the rock pools"" synonyms: splash, dip, paddle, trail; immerse   v. take part in an activity in a casual or superficial way. ""he dabbled in writing as a young man"" synonyms: toy with, dip into, flirt with, tinker with, trifle with, play with, dally with ""he dabbled in politics"""
dingy	"/ˈdinjē/ adj. gloomy and drab. ""a dingy room"" synonyms: gloomy, dark, dull, badly/poorly lit, murky, dim, dismal, dreary, drab, somber, grim, cheerless"
rout	"/rout/ v. defeat and cause to retreat in disorder. ""in a matter of minutes the attackers were routed"" synonyms: put to flight, put to rout, drive off, dispel, scatter"
septuagenarian	/sepCHo͞oəjəˈnerēən/ n. a person who is from 70 to 79 years old.
exasperation	"/iɡˌzaspəˈrāSH(ə)n/ n. a feeling of intense irritation or annoyance. ""she rolled her eyes in exasperation"" synonyms: irritation, annoyance, vexation, anger, fury, rage, ill humor, crossness, testiness, tetchiness"
exaggerate	"/iɡˈzajəˌrāt/ v. represent (something) as being larger, greater, better, or worse than it really is. ""they were apt to exaggerate any aches and pains"" synonyms: overstate, overemphasize, overestimate, magnify, amplify, aggrandize, inflate"
tenet	"/ˈtenət/ n. a principle or belief, especially one of the main principles of a religion or philosophy. ""the tenets of classical liberalism"" synonyms: principle, belief, doctrine, precept, creed, credo, article of faith, axiom, dogma, canon"
demote	"/dēˈmōt/ v. give (someone) a lower rank or less senior position, usually as a punishment. ""the head of the army was demoted to deputy defense secretary"" synonyms: downgrade, relegate, declass, reduce in rank"
concave	/känˈkāv/ adj. having an outline or surface that curves inward like the interior of a circle or sphere. synonyms: incurvate, curved inward, hollow, depressed, sunken
dissolute	"/ˈdisəˌlo͞ot/ adj. lax in morals; licentious. ""a dissolute, drunken, disreputable rogue"" synonyms: dissipated, debauched, decadent, intemperate, profligate, self-indulgent, wild, depraved"
tantrum	"/ˈtantrəm/ n. an uncontrolled outburst of anger and frustration, typically in a young child. ""he has temper tantrums if he can't get his own way"" synonyms: fit of temper, fit of rage, fit, outburst, pet, paroxysm, frenzy, bad mood, mood, huff, scene ""how can you tolerate his tantrums?"""
oxymoron	/ˌäksəˈmôrˌän/ n. a figure of speech in which apparently contradictory terms appear in conjunction (e.g., faith unfaithful kept him falsely true ).
red-handed	"/ˌred ˈhandəd/ adj. (of a person) having been discovered in or just after the act of doing something wrong or illegal. ""I caught him red-handed, stealing a wallet"" synonyms: in the act, with one's fingers/hand in the till, with one's hand in the cookie jar, in flagrante delicto ""the thief was caught red-handed"""
sluggish	"/ˈsləɡiSH/ adj. slow-moving or inactive. ""a sluggish stream"" synonyms: inactive, quiet, slow, slack, flat, depressed, stagnant ""the economy is sluggish"""
factual	"/ˈfak(t)SH(o͞o)əl/ adj. concerned with what is actually the case rather than interpretations of or reactions to it. ""a mixture of comment and factual information"" synonyms: truthful, true, accurate, authentic, historical, genuine, fact-based"
interdict	"/ˌin(t)ərˈdikt/ v. prohibit or forbid (something). ""society will never interdict sex"" synonyms: prohibit, forbid, ban, bar, veto, proscribe, embargo, disallow, debar, outlaw   v. intercept and prevent the movement of (a prohibited commodity or person). ""the police established roadblocks throughout the country for interdicting drugs"" synonyms: intercept, stop, head off, cut off"
extradite	"/ˈekstrəˌdīt/ v. hand over (a person accused or convicted of a crime) to the jurisdiction of the foreign state in which the crime was committed. ""Greece refused to extradite him to Italy"" synonyms: deport, send, ship, deliver, hand over; repatriate ""the Russians extradited him to Germany"""
chartered	/ˈCHärdərd/ adj. (of an accountant, engineer, librarian, etc.) qualified as a member of a professional body that has a royal charter.
charter	"/ˈCHärdər/ n. a written grant by a country's legislative or sovereign power, by which an institution such as a company, college, or city is created and its rights and privileges defined. synonyms: authority, authorization, sanction, dispensation, consent, permission   v. grant a charter to (a city, college, or other institution). ""the company was chartered in 1553""   v. reserve (an aircraft, boat, or bus) for private use. ""he chartered a plane to take him to Paris"" synonyms: hire, lease, rent"
séance	/ˈsāˌäns/ n. a meeting at which people attempt to make contact with the dead, especially through the agency of a medium.
enmesh	"/inˈmeSH/ v. cause to become entangled in something. ""whales enmeshed in drift nets"" synonyms: embroil, entangle, ensnare, snare, trap, entrap, ensnarl, involve, catch up, mix up, bog down, mire ""before he knew it, Reid was enmeshed in the gang mentality"""
wastrel	/ˈwāstrəl/ n. a wasteful or good-for-nothing person.
tavern	/ˈtavərn/ n. an establishment for the sale of beer and other drinks to be consumed on the premises, sometimes also serving food. synonyms: bar, pub, cocktail lounge, lounge, taproom, nightclub, roadhouse, club
badmouth	"/ˈbadˌmouTH/ v. criticize (someone or something); speak disloyally of. ""no one wants to hire an individual who bad-mouths a prior employer"""
amiable	"/ˈāmēəb(ə)l/ adj. having or displaying a friendly and pleasant manner. ""an amiable, unassuming fellow"" synonyms: friendly, affable, amicable, cordial"
cynic	"/ˈsinik/ n. a person who believes that people are motivated purely by self-interest rather than acting for honorable or unselfish reasons. ""some cynics thought that the controversy was all a publicity stunt"""
chantey	/ˈSHan(t)ē/ n. a song with alternating solo and chorus, of a kind originally sung by sailors while performing physical labor together.
analgesic	/ˌanlˈjēzik/ adj. (chiefly of a drug) acting to relieve pain.
salve	"/sav/ n. an ointment used to promote healing of the skin or as protection. synonyms: ointment, cream, balm, unguent, emollient   v. soothe (wounded pride or one's conscience). ""charity salves our conscience"" synonyms: soothe, assuage, ease, allay, lighten, alleviate, comfort, mollify ""she did it to salve her conscience"""
latitude	"/ˈladəˌt(y)o͞od/n. scope for freedom of action or thought. ""journalists have considerable latitude in criticizing public figures"" synonyms: freedom, scope, leeway, space, breathing space, flexibility, liberty, independence, free rein, license, room to maneuver, elbow room, wiggle room, freedom of action ""he gave them a lot of latitude"" antonyms: restriction   n. the angular distance of a place north or south of the earth's equator, or of a celestial object north or south of the celestial equator, usually expressed in degrees and minutes. ""at a latitude of 51° N"" synonyms: parallel, grid line ""Toronto shares the same latitude as Nice"""
regality	/rēˈɡalədē/ n. the state of being a king or queen.
balmy	"/ˈbä(l)mē/ adj. (of the weather) pleasantly warm. ""the balmy days of late summer"" synonyms: mild, gentle, temperate, summery, calm, tranquil, clement, fine, pleasant, benign, soothing, soft ""the balmy breezes of the West Indies"""
cant	"/kant/ n. hypocritical and sanctimonious talk, typically of a moral, religious, or political nature. ""the liberal case against all censorship is often cant"" synonyms: hypocrisy, sanctimoniousness, sanctimony, pietism ""political cant""   n. denoting a phrase or catchword temporarily current or in fashion. ""they are misrepresented as, in the cant word of our day, uncaring"""
repertoire	"/ˈrepə(r)ˌtwär/ n. a stock of plays, dances, or pieces that a company or a performer knows or is prepared to perform. synonyms: collection, stock, range, repertory, reserve, store, repository, supply ""the three tenors will fashion their repertoire to their audiences""    n. the whole body of items that are regularly performed. ""the mainstream concert repertoire""   n. a stock of skills or types of behavior that a person habitually uses. ""his repertoire of threats, stares, and denigratory gestures"""
servitude	"/ˈsərvəˌt(y)o͞od/ n. the state of being a slave or completely subject to someone more powerful. synonyms: slavery, enslavement, bondage, subjugation, subjection, domination ""born into a life of servitude"""
indenture	"/ˌinˈden(t)SHər/ n. a formal legal agreement, contract, or document, in particular. synonyms: contract, agreement, compact, deal, covenant, bond ""the validity of the indenture was in question"""
verse	"/vərs/ n. writing arranged with a metrical rhythm, typically having a rhyme. ""a lament in verse"" synonyms: poetry, versification, poetic form"
gourmet	"/ˌɡôrˈmā/ n. a connoisseur of good food; a person with a discerning palate. synonyms: gastronome, epicure, epicurean   n. of a kind or standard suitable for a gourmet. modifier noun: gourmet ""a gourmet meal"""
expertise	"/ˌekspərˈtēz/ n. expert skill or knowledge in a particular field. ""technical expertise"" synonyms: skill, skillfulness, expertness, prowess, proficiency, competence"
underlie	"/ˌəndərˈlī/ v. be the cause or basis of (something). ""the fundamental issue that underlies the conflict"" synonyms: fundamental, basic, primary, prime, central, principal, root, chief, cardinal, key, elementary, intrinsic, essential ""the underlying aims of the research"""
bob	"/bäb/ v. (of a thing) make a quick short movement up and down. ""I could see his red head bobbing around"" synonyms: move up and down, bounce, toss, skip, dance, jounce"
jovial	"/ˈjōvēəl/ adj. cheerful and friendly. ""she was in a jovial mood"" synonyms: cheerful, jolly, happy, cheery, good-humored, convivial, genial, good-natured, friendly, amiable, affable, sociable, outgoing"
char	"/CHär/ v. partially burn (an object) so as to blacken its surface. ""their bodies were badly charred in the fire"" synonyms: scorch, burn, singe, sear, blacken ""the steaks should be slightly charred"""
sunken	"/ˈsəNGkən/ adj. having sunk or been submerged in water. ""the wreck of a sunken ship""   adj. at a lower level than the surrounding area. ""a sunken garden"" synonyms: below ground level, at a lower level, lowered"
underplay	"/ˌəndərˈplā/ v. perform (something) in a restrained way. ""the violins underplayed the romantic element in the music""   v. represent (something) as being less important than it actually is. ""I do not wish to underplay the tragedies that have occurred"""
seethe	"/sēT͟H/ v. (of a liquid) bubble up as a result of being boiled. ""the brew foamed and seethed"" synonyms: boil, bubble, simmer, foam, froth, fizz, effervesce   v. (of a person) be filled with intense but unexpressed anger. ""inwardly he was seething at the slight to his authority"" synonyms: be angry, be furious, be enraged, be incensed, be beside oneself, boil, simmer, rage, rant, rave, storm, fume, smolder"
recidivism	"/rəˈsidəˌvizəm/ n. the tendency of a convicted criminal to reoffend. ""the prison has succeeded in reducing recidivism"""
squiggle	"/ˈskwiɡəl/ n. a short line that curls and loops in an irregular way. ""some prescriptions are a series of meaningless squiggles"" synonyms: wavy line, doodle ""their logo is the one with the two purple squiggles above the letter ""Q""""   v. wriggle; squirm. ""a worm that squiggled in his palm"""
knuckle	"/ˈnək(ə)l/ n. a part of a finger at a joint where the bone is near the surface, especially where the finger joins the hand. ""Charlotte rapped on the window with her knuckles"""
sloppy	"/ˈsläpē/ adj. careless and unsystematic; excessively casual. ""your speech has always been sloppy"" synonyms: careless, slapdash, slipshod, lackadaisical, haphazard, lax, slack, slovenly   adj. (of a garment) casual and loose-fitting. ""she wore a sloppy sweater and jeans"" synonyms: baggy, loose-fitting, loose, generously cut"
thwack	"/THwak/ v. strike forcefully with a sharp blow. ""she thwacked the back of their knees with a cane"""
parse	"/pärs/ v. analyze (a sentence) into its parts and describe their syntactic roles.   v. examine or analyze minutely. ""he has always been quick to parse his own problems in public"""
stake	"/stāk/ v. support (a tree or plant) with a stake or stakes. synonyms: prop up, tie up, tether, support, hold up, brace, truss ""the plants have to be staked""   v. mark an area with stakes so as to claim ownership of it. ""the boundary between the two ranches was properly staked out"" synonyms: mark off/out, demarcate, measure out, delimit, fence off, section off, close off, shut off, cordon off ""builders staked out the plot"""
bellwether	"/ˈbelˌweT͟Hər/ n. an indicator or predictor of something. ""college campuses are often the bellwether of change"" synonyms: harbinger, herald, indicator, predictor ""a bellwether of change""   n. the leading sheep of a flock, with a bell on its neck."
potentate	"/ˈpōtnˌtāt/ n. a monarch or ruler, especially an autocratic one. synonyms: ruler, monarch, sovereign, king, queen, emperor, empress, sultan, shah, raja, pharaoh ""diplomatic missions to foreign potentates"""
convene	"/kənˈvēn/ v. come or bring together for a meeting or activity; assemble. ""he convened a group of well-known scientists and philosophers"" synonyms: summon, call, call together, order"
convoy	"/ˈkänˌvoi/ n. a group of ships or vehicles traveling together, typically accompanied by armed troops, warships, or other vehicles for protection. synonyms: group, fleet, cavalcade, motorcade, cortège, caravan, line, train ""a convoy of vehicles""   v. (of a warship or armed troops) accompany (a group of ships or vehicles) for protection. synonyms: escort, accompany, attend, flank"
thrash	"/THraSH/ v. beat (a person or animal) repeatedly and violently with a stick or whip. ""she thrashed him across the head and shoulders"" synonyms: hit, beat, strike, batter, thump, hammer, pound, rain blows on"
treble	"/ˈtrebəl/ v. make or become three times as large or numerous. ""rents were doubled and probably trebled"""
rendition	"/renˈdiSH(ə)n/ n. a performance or interpretation, especially of a dramatic role or piece of music. ""a wonderful rendition of “Nessun Dorma.”"" synonyms: performance, rendering, interpretation, presentation, execution, delivery ""our rendition of Beethoven's Fifth""   n. the practice of sending a foreign criminal or terrorist suspect covertly to be interrogated in a country with less rigorous regulations for the humane treatment of prisoners."
ambush	"/ˈambo͝oSH/ v. make a surprise attack on (someone) from a concealed position. ""they were ambushed and taken prisoner by the enemy"" synonyms: attack by surprise, surprise, pounce on, fall upon, lay a trap for, set an ambush for, lie in wait for, waylay, bushwhack ""twenty youths ambushed the patrol car"""
rasping	"/ˈraspiNG/ adj. harsh-sounding and unpleasant; grating. ""his cracked, rasping voice narrates the story"" synonyms: harsh, grating, jarring"
forge	"/fôrj/ v. make or shape (a metal object) by heating it in a fire or furnace and beating or hammering it. synonyms: hammer out, beat into shape, fashion ""smiths forged swords""   v. produce a copy or imitation of (a document, signature, banknote, or work or art) for the purpose of deception. synonyms: fake, falsify, counterfeit, copy, imitate, reproduce, replicate, simulate"
reveller	"/ˈrevələr/ n. a person who is enjoying themselves in a lively and noisy way. ""the city's traditional Labor Day bash usually attracts more than 100,000 revelers"" ""the New Year's Eve revelers have poured into Times Square in record numbers"" synonyms: partygoer, merrymaker, carouser, roisterer"
withering	"/ˈwiT͟HəriNG/ adj. intended to make someone feel mortified or humiliated. ""a withering look"" synonyms: scornful, contemptuous, scathing, stinging, devastating"
slant	"/slant/ v. slope or lean in a particular direction; diverge or cause to diverge from the vertical or horizontal. ""a plowed field slanted up to the skyline"" synonyms: slope, tilt, incline, be at an angle, tip, cant, lean, dip, pitch, shelve, list, bank   n. a particular point of view from which something is seen or presented. ""a new slant on science"" synonyms: point of view, viewpoint, standpoint, stance, angle, perspective, approach, view, attitude, position"
portentous	"/pôrˈten(t)əs/ adj. of or like a portent. ""the envelope and its portentous contents"" synonyms: ominous, warning, premonitory, threatening, menacing, ill-omened, foreboding, inauspicious, unfavorable ""portentous signs""   adj. done in a pompously or overly solemn manner so as to impress. ""the author's portentous moralizings"" synonyms: pompous, bombastic, self-important, pontifical, solemn, sonorous, grandiloquent ""portentous dialogue"""
peremptory	"/pəˈrem(p)t(ə)rē/ adj. (especially of a person's manner or actions) insisting on immediate attention or obedience, especially in a brusquely imperious way. ""“Just do it!” came the peremptory reply"" synonyms: brusque, imperious, high-handed, brisk, abrupt, summary, commanding, dictatorial, autocratic, overbearing, dogmatic, arrogant, overweening, lordly, magisterial, authoritarian"
splenetic	"/spləˈnedik/ adj. bad-tempered; spiteful. ""a splenetic outburst"" synonyms: bad-tempered, ill-tempered, angry, cross, peevish, petulant, pettish, irritable, irascible, choleric, dyspeptic, testy, tetchy, snappish, waspish, crotchety, crabby, querulous, resentful, rancorous, bilious"
eavesdrop	"/ˈēvzˌdräp/ v. secretly listen to a conversation. ""she opened the window just enough to eavesdrop on the conversation outside"" synonyms: listen in, spy, intrude"
proverbial	"/prəˈvərbēəl/ adj. well known, especially so as to be stereotypical. ""the Welsh people, whose hospitality is proverbial"" synonyms: well known, famous, famed, renowned, traditional, time-honored, legendary"
comprise	"/kəmˈprīz/ v. consist of; be made up of. ""the country comprises twenty states"" synonyms: consist of, be made up of, be composed of, contain, encompass, incorporate   v. make up; constitute. ""this single breed comprises 50 percent of the Swiss cattle population"" synonyms: make up, constitute, form, compose; account for"
bumbling	"/ˈbəmb(ə)liNG/ adj. acting in a confused or ineffectual way; incompetent. ""he's a bumbling fool"""
untoward	"/ˌənˈtôrd/ adj. unexpected and inappropriate or inconvenient. ""both tried to behave as if nothing untoward had happened"" synonyms: inconvenient, unlucky, unexpected, unforeseen, surprising, unusual"
vindicate	"/ˈvindəˌkāt/ v. clear (someone) of blame or suspicion. ""hospital staff were vindicated by the inquest verdict"" synonyms: acquit, clear, absolve, exonerate   v. show or prove to be right, reasonable, or justified. ""more sober views were vindicated by events"" synonyms: justify, warrant, substantiate, ratify, authenticate, verify, confirm, corroborate, prove, defend, support, back up, bear out, evidence, endorse ""I had fully vindicated my contention"""
maunder	"/ˈmôndər/ v. talk in a rambling manner. ""Dennis maundered on about the wine"" synonyms: ramble, prattle, blather, rattle, chatter, jabber, babble   v. move or act in a dreamy or idle manner. ""he maunders through the bank, composing his thoughts"" synonyms: wander, drift, meander, amble, putter ""she maundered across the road"""
arriviste	/ˌärēˈvēst/ n. an ambitious or ruthlessly self-seeking person, especially one who has recently acquired wealth or social status.
parvenu	"/ˈpärvəˌn(y)o͞o/ n. a person of obscure origin who has gained wealth, influence, or celebrity. ""the political inexperience of a parvenu"" synonyms: upstart, social climber, arriviste ""make way for our newest little hotshot parvenu"""
upstart	"/ˈəpˌstärt/ n. a person who has risen suddenly to wealth or high position, especially one who behaves arrogantly. ""the upstarts who dare to challenge the legitimacy of his rule"" synonyms: parvenu, arriviste, nouveau riche, status seeker, social climber, a jumped-up, johnny-come-lately ""these upstarts, they don't know their place"""
duress	"/d(y)o͝oˈres/ n. threats, violence, constraints, or other action brought to bear on someone to do something against their will or better judgment. ""confessions extracted under duress"" synonyms: coercion, compulsion, force, pressure, intimidation, constraint"
chortle	"/ˈCHôrdl/ v. laugh in a breathy, gleeful way; chuckle. ""he chortled at his own pun"" synonyms: chuckle, laugh, giggle, titter, tee-hee, snigger ""they were chortling behind their hands, as if we didn't notice"""
defray	"/dəˈfrā/ v. provide money to pay (a cost or expense). ""the proceeds from the raffle help to defray the expenses of the evening"" synonyms: pay (for), cover, meet, square, settle, clear, discharge ""the reserve funds are not enough to defray the additional costs"""
posit	"/ˈpäzət/ v. assume as a fact; put forward as a basis of argument. ""the Confucian view posits a perfectible human nature"" synonyms: postulate, put forward, advance, propound, submit, hypothesize, propose, assert ""they posit a purely biological basis for this phenomenon""   v. put in position; place. ""the professor posits Cohen in his second category of poets"""
pillory	"/ˈpilərē/ n. a wooden framework with holes for the head and hands, in which an offender was imprisoned and exposed to public abuse. synonyms: stocks ""offenders were put in the pillory""   v. attack or ridicule publicly. ""he found himself pilloried by members of his own party"" synonyms: attack, criticize, censure, condemn, denigrate, lambaste, savage, stigmatize, denounce"
expansive	"/ikˈspansiv/ adj. covering a wide area in terms of space or scope; extensive or wide-ranging. ""deep, expansive canyons"" synonyms: extensive, sweeping, rolling   adj. (of a person or their manner) open, demonstrative, and communicative. ""she felt expansive and inclined to talk"" synonyms: communicative, forthcoming, sociable, friendly, outgoing, affable, chatty, talkative, garrulous, effusive, loquacious, voluble ""Bethany became engagingly expansive"""
doughty	"/ˈdoudē/ adj. brave and persistent. ""his doughty spirit kept him going"" synonyms: fearless, dauntless, determined, resolute, indomitable, intrepid, plucky, spirited, bold, valiant, brave, stouthearted, courageous"
appurtenant	"/əˈpərt(ə)nənt/ adj. belonging; pertinent. ""secondary buildings that are appurtenant to the main building"""
raillery	"/ˈrālərē/ n. good-humoured teasing.  ""she was greeted with raillery from her fellow workers"" synonyms:teasing, good-humoured mockery, chaff, banter, ragging, badinage, japing"
winsome	"/ˈwinsəm/ adj. attractive or appealing in appearance or character. ""a winsome smile"""
desideratum	"/dəˌzidəˈrädəm/ n. something that is needed or wanted. ""integrity was a desideratum"" synonyms: requirement, prerequisite, need, indispensable thing, sine qua non, essential, requisite, necessary"
pyrrhic	/ˈpirik/ adj. (of a victory) won at too great a cost to have been worthwhile for the victor.
admonitory	"/ədˈmänəˌtôrē/ adj. giving or conveying a warning or reprimand. ""the sergeant lifted an admonitory finger"""
simulacrum	"/ˌsimyəˈlākrəm/ n. an image or representation of someone or something. ""a small-scale simulacrum of a skyscraper""   n. an unsatisfactory imitation or substitute. ""a bland simulacrum of American soul music"""
stultify	"/ˈstəltəˌfī/ v. cause to lose enthusiasm and initiative, especially as a result of a tedious or restrictive routine. ""the mentally stultifying effects of a disadvantaged home"" synonyms: hamper, impede, thwart, frustrate, foil, suppress, smother   v. cause (someone) to appear foolish or absurd. ""Counsel is not expected to stultify himself in an attempt to advance his client's interests"""
sangfroid	/säNGˈfrwä/ n. composure or coolness, sometimes excessive, as shown in danger or under trying circumstances. synonyms: composure, equanimity, self-possession, equilibrium, aplomb, poise, self-assurance, self-control, nerve, calm, presence of mind
edifying	"/ˈedəˌfīiNG/ adj. providing moral or intellectual instruction. ""edifying literature"""
quisling	/ˈkwizliNG/ n. a traitor who collaborates with an enemy force occupying their country. synonyms: collaborator, colluder, sympathizer
flummox	"/ˈfləməks/ v. perplex (someone) greatly; bewilder. ""he was completely flummoxed by the question"" synonyms: baffle, perplex, puzzle, bewilder, mystify, bemuse, confuse, confound"
palimpsest	"/ˈpaləm(p)ˌsest/ n. a manuscript or piece of writing material on which the original writing has been effaced to make room for later writing but of which traces remain.   n. something reused or altered but still bearing visible traces of its earlier form. ""Sutton Place is a palimpsest of the taste of successive owners"""
harried	"/ˈharēd/ adj. feeling strained as a result of having demands persistently made on one; harassed. ""harried reporters are frequently forced to invent what they cannot find out"""
benighted	"/bəˈnīdəd/ adj. in a state of pitiful or contemptible intellectual or moral ignorance, typically owing to a lack of opportunity. ""they saw themselves as bringers of culture to poor benighted peoples"" synonyms: ignorant, unenlightened, uneducated, unschooled, untutored, illiterate, unlettered, unlearned, unscholarly, unread, uninformed, backward, simple   adj. overtaken by darkness. ""a storm developed and we were forced to wait benighted near the summit"""
ward	"/wôrd/ n. a separate room in a hospital, typically one allocated to a particular type of patient. ""a children's ward"" synonyms: room, department, unit, area, wing ""the surgical ward""   n. an administrative division of a city or borough that typically elects and is represented by a councilor or councilors. synonyms: district, constituency, division, quarter, zone, parish ""the majority of voters in our ward are Democrats""   n. a person, usually a minor, under the care and control of a guardian appointed by their parents or a court. synonyms: dependent, charge, protégé ""the boy is my ward"""
gyrate	"/ˈjīrāt/ v. move or cause to move in a circle or spiral, especially quickly. ""their wings gyrate through the water like paddle wheels"" synonyms: rotate, revolve, wheel, turn around, whirl, circle, pirouette, twirl, swirl, spin, swivel ""the disk gyrates atop an aluminum pole"""
downfall	"/ˈdounˌfôl/ n. a loss of power, prosperity, or status. ""the crisis led to the downfall of the government"" synonyms: undoing, ruin, ruination"
personify	"/pərˈsänəˌfī/ v. represent (a quality or concept) by a figure in human form. ""public pageants and dramas in which virtues and vices were personified""   v. attribute a personal nature or human characteristics to (something nonhuman). ""in the poem, the oak trees are personified"" synonyms: epitomize, embody, hypostatize, typify, exemplify, represent, symbolize, stand for, be the incarnation of, body forth, put a face on ""the picture on the label should personify good, wholesome American cooking""   v. represent or embody (a quality, concept, or thing) in a physical form. ""he fairly personifies trustworthiness"""
anew	"/əˈn(y)o͞o/ adv. in a new or different, typically more positive way. ""her career had begun anew, with a lucrative Japanese modeling contract""   adv. once more; again. ""tears filled her eyes anew"" synonyms: again, afresh, another time, once more/again, over again ""may we please begin anew?"""
constituency	"/kənˈstiCHo͞oənsē/ n. a body of voters in a specified area who elect a representative to a legislative body. ""the politician who wishes to remain in the good graces of his constituency"""
legislature	"/ˈlejəˌslāCHər/ n. the legislative body of a country or state. synonyms: legislative body, congress, legislative assembly, parliament, senate, house of representatives, council, diet ""the judiciary must remain independent of the legislature"""
fiendish	"/ˈfēndiSH/ adj. extremely cruel or unpleasant; devilish. ""shrieks of fiendish laughter"" synonyms: wicked, cruel, vicious, evil, malevolent, villainous   adj. extremely awkward or complex. ""a fiendish problem"" synonyms: difficult, complex, challenging, complicated, intricate, involved, knotty, thorny, tricky ""a fiendish puzzle"""
dissolve	"/dəˈzälv/ v. (with reference to a solid) become or cause to become incorporated into a liquid so as to form a solution. ""glucose dissolves easily in water"" synonyms: go into solution, become a solution, break down   v. close down or dismiss (an assembly or official body). ""the country's president can dissolve parliament under certain circumstances"" synonyms: disband, disestablish, dismiss"
feverishly	"/ˈfēv(ə)riSHlē/ adv. in a manner that shows the symptoms of a fever. ""water trickled from his hair and he began shivering feverishly""   adv. in a frenetically excited or energetic manner. ""a feverishly anticipated major sports tournament"""
pigment	/ˈpiɡmənt/ n. the natural coloring matter of animal or plant tissue.
tartar	/ˈtärdər/ n. a hard calcified deposit that forms on the teeth and contributes to their decay.
prioritize	"/prīˈôrəˌtīz/ v. designate or treat (something) as more important than other things. ""prioritize your credit card debt"""
bombardment	"/bämˈbärdmənt/ n. a continuous attack with bombs, shells, or other missiles. ""an aerial bombardment will precede the attack"" synonyms: shelling, strafing, pounding, pelting, blitz, air raid, strafe, bombing"
interdisciplinary	"/ˌin(t)ərˈdis(ə)pləˌnerē/  adj. relating to more than one branch of knowledge. ""an interdisciplinary research program"""
facet	"/ˈfasət/ n. one side of something many-sided, especially of a cut gem. synonyms: surface, face, side, plane, angle, slant ""a larger number of small facets preserves the size of the gem""   n. a particular aspect or feature of something. ""participation by the laity in all facets of church life"" synonyms: aspect, feature, side, dimension, particular, characteristic, detail, point, ingredient, strand, factor"
plenary	"/ˈplenərē/ adj. unqualified; absolute. ""crusaders were offered a plenary indulgence by the Pope"" synonyms: unconditional, unlimited, unrestricted, unqualified, absolute, complete, sweeping, comprehensive ""the council has plenary powers to administer the agreement""   adj. (of a meeting) to be attended by all participants at a conference or assembly, who otherwise meet in smaller groups. ""a plenary session of the European Parliament"" synonyms: full, fully constituted, general, complete, entire, open"
smother	"/ˈsməT͟Hər/ v. kill (someone) by covering their nose and mouth so that they suffocate. synonyms: suffocate, stifle, asphyxiate, choke, throttle, strangle, strangulate ""Othello kills Desdemona by smothering her""   n. a mass of something that stifles or obscures. ""all this vanished in a smother of foam"""
repute	"/rəˈpyo͞ot/ n. the opinion generally held of someone or something; the state of being generally regarded in a particular way. ""pollution could bring the authority's name into bad repute"" synonyms: reputation, name, character ""a woman of ill repute""   v. be generally said or believed to do something or to have particular characteristics. ""he was reputed to have a fabulous house"" synonyms: thought, said, reported, rumored, believed, held, considered, regarded, deemed, judged, estimated"
overweening	"/ˌōvərˈwēniNG/ adj. showing excessive confidence or pride. ""overweening ambition"" synonyms: overconfident, conceited, cocksure, cocky, smug, haughty, supercilious, disdainful, lofty, patronizing, arrogant, proud, vain, vainglorious, self-important, egotistical, high-handed, magisterial, cavalier, imperious, domineering, dictatorial, overbearing, presumptuous, lordly, peremptory, pompous, officious, blustering, boastful, self-assertive, opinionated, bold, forward, insolen"
dissolution	"/ˌdisəˈlo͞oSH(ə)n/ n. the closing down or dismissal of an assembly, partnership, or official body. ""the dissolution of their marriage"" synonyms: cessation, conclusion, end, ending, finish, termination, breakup, split-up, winding up/down, discontinuation, suspension   n. debauched living; dissipation. ""an advanced state of dissolution"" synonyms: debauchery, dissipation, decadence, dissoluteness, intemperance, immoderation, excess, profligacy, abandonment, self-indulgence, wildness"
lambast	"/lamˈbāst/ v. criticize (someone or something) harshly. ""they lambasted the report as a gross distortion of the truth"" synonyms: criticize, castigate, chastise, censure, condemn, take to task, harangue, attack, rail at, rant at, revile, fulminate against, haul/call over the coals"
arch	"/ärCH/ adj. deliberately or affectedly playful and teasing. ""arch observations about even the most mundane matters"" synonyms: knowing, playful, mischievous, puckish, roguish, impish, elfin, devilish, naughty, wicked, cheeky, teasing, saucy, flippant, tongue-in-cheek"
bowdlerize	"/ˈbōdləˌrīz/ v. remove material that is considered improper or offensive from (a text or account), especially with the result that the text becomes weaker or less effective. ""every edition of his letters and diaries has been bowdlerized"" synonyms: expurgate, censor, blue-pencil, cut, edit, redact"
subsume	"/səbˈso͞om/ v. include or absorb (something) in something else. ""most of these phenomena can be subsumed under two broad categories"""
travesty	"/ˈtravəstē/ n. a false, absurd, or distorted representation of something. ""the absurdly lenient sentence is a travesty of justice"" synonyms: misrepresentation, distortion, perversion, corruption, poor imitation, poor substitute, mockery, parody, caricature   v. represent in a false or distorted way. ""Michael has betrayed the family by travestying them in his plays"" synonyms: misrepresent, parody, caricature, burlesque, mock, make a mockery of, ridicule, make fun of"
volubility	"/ˌvälyəˈbilədē/ n. the quality of talking fluently, readily, or incessantly; talkativeness. ""her legendary volubility deserted her"" synonyms: talkativeness, loquaciousness, loquacity, garrulousness, garrulity, verboseness, long-windedness, wordiness, chattiness, effusiveness, profuseness, communicativeness, expansiveness, openness, lack of reserve"
torpor	"/ˈtôrpər/ n. a state of physical or mental inactivity; lethargy. ""they veered between apathetic torpor and hysterical fanaticism"" synonyms: lethargy, torpidity, sluggishness, inertia, inertness, inactivity, inaction, slowness, lifelessness, dullness, heaviness, listlessness, languor, languidness, stagnation, laziness, idleness, indolence, shiftlessness, sloth, slothfulness, apathy, accidie, passivity, weariness, tiredness, lassitude, fatigue, sleepiness, drowsiness, enervation, somnolence, narcosis ""he spent most of the journey in a state of torpor"""
solecism	/ˈsäləˌsizəm/ n. a grammatical mistake in speech or writing. synonyms: (grammatical) mistake, error, blunder   n. a breach of good manners; a piece of incorrect behavior. synonyms: faux pas, gaffe, breach of etiquette, impropriety, piece of indecorum, social indiscretion, inappropriate behavior, infelicity, slip, error, blunder, miscalculation, lapse
mulct	"/məlkt/ v. extract money from (someone) by fine or taxation. ""no government dared propose to mulct the taxpayer for such a purpose"""
rankle	"/ˈraNGk(ə)l/ v. (of a comment, event, or fact) cause annoyance or resentment that persists. ""the casual manner of his dismissal still rankles"""
askance	"/əˈskans/ adv. with an attitude or look of suspicion or disapproval. ""the reformers looked askance at the mystical tradition"" synonyms: suspiciously, with suspicion, sceptically, with misgivings, cynically, mistrustfully, distrustfully, with distrust, doubtfully, dubiously, with doubt"
palaver	"/pəˈlavər/ n. unnecessarily elaborate or complex procedure. ""there's a lot of palaver involved""   v. talk unproductively and at length. ""it's too hot for palavering"" synonyms: chatter, gossip, prattle, prate, babble, blather, blether, blither, maunder, gabble, jabber, tittle-tattle"
babble	"/ˈbabəl/ v. talk rapidly and continuously in a foolish, excited, or incomprehensible way. ""they babbled on about their vacation"" synonyms: prattle, rattle on, gabble, chatter, jabber, twitter, go on, run on, prate, ramble, burble, blather, blether, blither, maunder, drivel, patter, yap, jibber-jabber   v. (of a flowing water) make a continuous murmuring sound. ""the shallow river babbled over smooth rocks"" synonyms: burble, murmur, gurgle, purl, tinkle ""just out of sight a brook babbled gently"""
scalding	"/ˈskôldiNG/ adj. very hot; burning. ""she took a sip of scalding tea"" synonyms: extremely hot, burning, blistering, searing, red-hot   adj. intense and painful or distressing. ""a scalding tirade of abuse"""
wrangling	"/ˈraNGɡliNG/ n. engagement in a long, complicated dispute or argument. ""weeks of political wrangling"""
ringed	"/riNGd/ adj. marked with or encircled by a ring or rings. ""a long, ringed tail similar to a tabby cat""   adj. wearing a ring, as an ornament or a token of marriage, engagement, or authority. ""they wore suits with the sleeves pulled back to show ringed fingers"""
cramped	"/kram(p)t/ adj. feeling or causing someone to feel uncomfortably confined or hemmed in by lack of space. ""the staff had to work in cramped conditions"" synonyms: restricted, confined, constricted   adj. suffering from a cramp. ""cramped muscles"""
yank	"/yaNGk/ v. pull with a jerk. ""her hair was yanked, and she screamed"" synonyms: jerk, pull, tug, wrench, heave, haul, drag, tweak, twitch, pluck, snatch, seize, rip, tear, whisk, jolt, force ""Gilbert yanked open the door to the office"""
throttle	"/ˈTHrädl/ n. a device controlling the flow of fuel or power to an engine. ""the engines were at full throttle""   v. attack or kill (someone) by choking or strangling them. ""she was sorely tempted to throttle him"" synonyms: choke, strangle, strangulate, garrotte, asphyxiate, smother, suffocate, stifle"
stranded	"/ˈstrandəd/ adj. (of a boat, sailor, or sea creature) left aground on a shore. ""a stranded whale""   adj. left without the means to move from somewhere. ""she offers a lift to a stranded commuter"""
beckon	"/ˈbekən/ v. make a gesture with the hand, arm, or head to encourage someone to come nearer or follow. synonyms: gesture, signal, wave, gesticulate, make a gesture, motion, nod, call ""the guard beckoned to Benny""   v. seem to be appealing or inviting. ""the going is tough and soft options beckon"" synonyms: entice, invite, tempt, coax, lure, charm, attract, draw, pull (in), bring in, call, allure, interest, fascinate, engage, enchant, captivate, persuade, induce, catch the eye of ""the moorland and miles of coastal path beckon many walkers"""
encroach	"/inˈkrōCH/ v. intrude on (a person's territory or a thing considered to be a right). ""rather than encroach on his privacy she might have kept to her room"" synonyms: intrude, trespass, impinge, butt in, barge in, cut in, obtrude, impose oneself"
reinstate	"/ˌrēinˈstāt/ v. restore (someone or something) to their former position or condition. ""the union is fighting to reinstate the fired journalists"" synonyms: restore, return to a former position, return to power, put back, replace, bring back, reinstitute, reinstall, rehabilitate, re-establish ""he was reinstated as President on 21 August"""
snarl	"/snärl/ v. (of an animal such as a dog) make an aggressive growl with bared teeth. ""the dog snarled at the boy"" synonyms: growl, show its teeth ""a pack of snarling wolves""   v. (of a person) say something in an angry, bad-tempered voice. ""I used to snarl at anyone I disliked"" synonyms: say/speak roughly, say/speak brusquely, say/speak nastily, say/speak angrily, bark, snap, growl, fling, hurl   v. entangle or impede (something). ""the bus got snarled up in the downtown traffic"" synonyms: tangle, entangle, entwine, enmesh, ravel, knot, twist, intertwine, jumble, muddle, foul ""the trailing lead got snarled up in a bramble bush"" antonyms: untangle"
underappreciate	"/ˌəndərəˈprēSHiāt/ v. fail to value (someone or something) highly enough. ""one of the jazz world's most underappreciated artists"""
impetus	"/ˈimpədəs/ n. the force or energy with which a body moves. ""hit the booster coil before the flywheel loses all its impetus"" synonyms: momentum, propulsion, impulsion, impelling force, motive force, driving force, drive, thrust, continuing motion   n. the force that makes something happen or happen more quickly. ""the crisis of the 1860s provided the original impetus for the settlements"" synonyms: motivation, stimulus, incitement, incentive, inducement, inspiration, encouragement, boost"
inculcate	"/ˈinkəlˌkāt/ v. instill (an attitude, idea, or habit) by persistent instruction. ""the failures of the churches to inculcate a sense of moral responsibility"" synonyms: instil, implant, fix, ingrain, infuse, impress, imprint, introduce   v. teach (someone) an attitude, idea, or habit by persistent instruction. ""they will try to inculcate you with a respect for culture"""
fervor	"/ˈfərvər/ n. intense and passionate feeling. ""he talked with all the fervor of a new convert"" synonyms: passion, ardor, intensity, zeal, vehemence, vehemency, emotion, warmth, sincerity, earnestness, avidness, avidity, eagerness, keenness, enthusiasm, excitement, animation, vigor, energy, fire, fieriness, heat, spirit, zest, appetite, hunger, urgency"
lifeblood	"/ˈlīfˌbləd/ n. the indispensable factor or influence that gives something its strength and vitality. ""my family was the lifeblood of the church"" synonyms: life force, life, essential part/component/constituent, animating spirit, moving force, driving force, dynamic force, vital spark, vital fluid, inspiration, stimulus, center, animus, essence, crux, heart, soul, core, kernel, marrow, pith"
cling	"/kliNG/ v. (of a person or animal) hold on tightly to. ""she clung to Joe's arm"" synonyms: hold onto, clutch, grip, grasp, clasp, attach oneself to, hang onto, hold tightly, clench   v. adhere or stick firmly or closely to; be hard to part or remove from. ""the smell of smoke clung to their clothes"" synonyms: stick, adhere, hold, cohere, bond, bind ""shorter rice grains have a tendency to cling together""   v. remain persistently or stubbornly faithful to. ""she clung resolutely to her convictions"" synonyms: adhere to, hold to, stick to, stand by, abide by, remain attached to, remain devoted to, cherish, be loyal to, be faithful to, remain true to, have faith in, swear by"
redact	"/rəˈdakt/ v. edit (text) for publication. ""a confidential memo which has been redacted from 25 pages to just one paragraph"""
fictitious	"/fikˈtiSHəs/ adj. not real or true, being imaginary or having been fabricated. ""she pleaded guilty to stealing thousands in taxpayer dollars by having a fictitious employee on her payroll"" synonyms: false, fake, counterfeit, fabricated, sham   adj. relating to or denoting the imaginary characters and events found in fiction. ""the people in this novel are fictitious; the background of public events is not"" synonyms: fictional, imaginary, imagined, invented, made up, make-believe, unreal, nonexistent, mythical, storybook, apocryphal"
overhaul	"/ˌōvərˈhôl/ v. take apart (a piece of machinery or equipment) in order to examine it and repair it if necessary. ""a company that overhauls and repairs aircraft engines"" synonyms: service, maintain, repair, mend, fix up, patch up, rebuild, renovate, revamp, recondition, remodel, refit, refurbish, modernize"
withhold	"/wiT͟Hˈhōld/ v. refuse to give (something that is due to or is desired by another). ""the name of the dead man is being withheld"" synonyms: refuse to give, hold back, keep back, stop   v. suppress or hold back (an emotion or reaction). synonyms: suppress, repress, hold back, keep back, fight back, choke back, swallow, control, keep in check, check, restrain, contain, curb ""Elizabeth could no longer withhold her tears"""
persecution	"/ˌpərsəˈkyo͞oSH(ə)n/ n. hostility and ill-treatment, especially because of race or political or religious beliefs. ""her family fled religious persecution"" synonyms: oppression, victimization, maltreatment, ill treatment, mistreatment, abuse, ill usage, discrimination, tyranny, tyrannization, punishment, torment, torture   n. persistent annoyance or harassment. ""his persecution at the hands of other students"""
emblematic	"/ˌembləˈmadik/ adj. serving as a symbol of a particular quality or concept; symbolic. ""this case is emblematic of a larger problem"" synonyms: symbolic, representative, demonstrative, suggestive, symptomatic, indicative, typical, characteristic"
fault	"/fôlt/ n. an unattractive or unsatisfactory feature, especially in a piece of work or in a person's character. ""my worst fault is impatience""   n. responsibility for an accident or misfortune. ""it was his fault she had died"" synonyms: responsibility, liability, culpability, blameworthiness, guilt   v. criticize for inadequacy or mistakes. ""her colleagues and superiors could not fault her dedication to the job"" synonyms: find fault with, find lacking"
sellout	/ˈselˌout/ n. the selling of an entire stock of something, especially tickets for an entertainment or sports event.
horrendous	"/həˈrendəs/ adj. extremely unpleasant, horrifying, or terrible. ""she suffered horrendous injuries"" synonyms: horrible, dreadful, horrifying, horrific, frightful, fearful, awful, terrible, shocking, appalling, hideous, grim, grisly, ghastly, harrowing, gruesome, heinous, vile, nightmarish, macabre, unspeakable, hair-raising, spine-chilling"
scrounge	"/skrounj/ v. seek to obtain (something, typically food or money) at the expense or through the generosity of others or by stealth. ""he had managed to scrounge a free meal"" synonyms: beg, borrow"
impish	"/ˈimpiSH/ adj. inclined to do slightly naughty things for fun; mischievous. ""he had an impish look about him"" synonyms: mischievous, naughty, wicked, devilish, rascally, roguish, prankish, playful, waggish"
distill	"/dəˈstil/ v. purify (a liquid) by vaporizing it, then condensing it by cooling the vapor, and collecting the resulting liquid. ""they managed to distill a small quantity of water"" synonyms: purify, refine, filter, treat, process   v. extract the essential meaning or most important aspects of. ""my travel notes were distilled into a book"""
levitate	"/ˈlevəˌtāt/ v. rise or cause to rise and hover in the air, especially by means of supernatural or magical power. ""he was focused on levitating the backpack"" synonyms: float, rise into the air, rise, hover, be suspended, glide, waft, drift, hang, defy gravity, fly, soar up ""the casket suddenly levitated a meter above the ground"""
bigoted	"/ˈbiɡədəd/ adj. having or revealing an obstinate belief in the superiority of one's own opinions and a prejudiced intolerance of the opinions of others. ""a bigoted group of reactionaries"" synonyms: prejudiced, biased, partial, one-sided, sectarian, discriminatory"
contention	"/kənˈten(t)SH(ə)n/ n. heated disagreement. ""the captured territory was one of the main areas of contention between the two countries"" synonyms: disagreement, dispute, disputation, argument, variance   n. an assertion, especially one maintained in argument. ""statistics bear out his contention that many runners are undertrained for this event"" synonyms: argument, claim, plea, submission, allegation"
preconception	/ˌprēkənˈsepSH(ə)n/ n. a preconceived idea or prejudice. synonyms: preconceived idea/notion, presupposition, assumption, presumption, prejudgment, expectation, prepossession
arboreal	"/ärˈbôrēəl/ adj. (chiefly of animals) living in trees. ""arboreal rodents"""
sterilize	"/ˈsterəˌlīz/ v. make (something) free from bacteria or other living microorganisms. ""babies' feeding equipment can be cleaned and sterilized"" synonyms: disinfect, purify, fumigate, decontaminate, sanitize   v. deprive (a person or animal) of the ability to produce offspring, typically by removing or blocking the sex organs. synonyms: vasectomize, hysterectomize"
cantankerous	"/kanˈtaNGk(ə)rəs/ adj. bad-tempered, argumentative, and uncooperative. ""a crusty, cantankerous old man"" synonyms: bad-tempered, irascible, irritable, grumpy, grouchy, crotchety, tetchy, testy, crusty, curmudgeonly, ill-tempered, ill-natured, ill-humored, peevish, cross, as cross as two sticks, fractious, disagreeable, pettish, crabbed, crabby, waspish, prickly, peppery, touchy, scratchy, splenetic, shrewish, short-tempered, hot-tempered, quick-tempered, dyspeptic, choleric, bilious, liverish, cross-grained"
allegory	"/ˈaləˌɡôrē/ n. a story, poem, or picture that can be interpreted to reveal a hidden meaning, typically a moral or political one. ""Pilgrim's Progress is an allegory of the spiritual journey"" synonyms: parable, analogy, metaphor, symbol, emblem"
invigorate	"/inˈviɡəˌrāt/ v. give strength or energy to. ""the shower had invigorated her"" synonyms: revitalize, energize, refresh, revive, vivify, brace, rejuvenate, enliven, liven up, perk up, wake up, animate, galvanize, electrify, stimulate, motivate, rouse, exhilarate, excite"
ferment	"/fərˈment/ v. (of a substance) undergo fermentation. ""the drink had fermented, turning some of the juice into alcohol"" synonyms: undergo fermentation, brew   v. incite or stir up (trouble or disorder). ""the politicians and warlords who are fermenting this chaos"" synonyms: cause, bring on, bring about, give rise to, lead to, result in, generate, engender, spawn, instigate, prompt, provoke, incite, excite, arouse, stir up, whip up, foment, kindle, trigger off, spark off, touch off"
regale	"/rəˈɡāl/ v. entertain or amuse (someone) with talk. ""he regaled her with a colorful account of that afternoon's meeting"" synonyms: entertain, amuse, divert, delight, fascinate, captivate, beguile; treat to   v. lavishly supply (someone) with food or drink. ""he was regaled with excellent home cooking"" synonyms: supply lavishly, entertain lavishly/sumptuously, ply, wine and dine, fete, feast, cater for, serve, feed ""the carol-singers were regaled with refreshment at most houses"""
predispose	"/ˌprēdəˈspōz/ v. make someone liable or inclined to a specified attitude, action, or condition. ""lack of exercise may predispose an individual to high blood pressure"" synonyms: make susceptible, make liable, make prone, lay open, make vulnerable, put at risk of, leave open, make subject"
unreservedly	"/ˌənrəˈzərvidlē/ adv. without reservations; completely. ""I unreservedly recommend the book""   adv. frankly and openly. ""we like to be able to talk unreservedly about ourselves"""
prominence	"/ˈprämənəns/ n. the state of being important or famous. ""she came to prominence as an artist in the 1960s"" synonyms: fame, celebrity, eminence, preeminence, importance, distinction, greatness, note, notability, prestige, stature, standing, position, rank, renown, repute, illustriousness, acclaim, influence, account, consequence, visibility   n. the fact or condition of standing out from something by physically projecting or being particularly noticeable. ""radiographs showed enlargement of the right heart with prominence of the pulmonary outflow tract"""
autocratic	"/ˌôdəˈkradik/ adj. relating to a ruler who has absolute power. ""the constitutional reforms threatened his autocratic power""   adj. taking no account of other people's wishes or opinions; domineering. ""an autocratic management style"" synonyms: despotic, tyrannical, oppressive, repressive antonyms: democratic, liberal"
antipodal	/anˈtipədl/ adj. relating to or situated on the opposite side of the earth.   adj. diametrically opposed to.
nuisance	"/ˈn(y)o͞osəns/ n. a person, thing, or circumstance causing inconvenience or annoyance. ""I hope you're not going to make a nuisance of yourself"" synonyms: source of annoyance/irritation, annoyance, inconvenience, bore, bother, irritant, problem, difficulty, trouble, trial, burden"
scourge	"/skərj/ n. a person or thing that causes great trouble or suffering. ""the scourge of mass unemployment"" synonyms: affliction, bane, curse, plague, menace, evil, misfortune, burden, cross to bear, thorn in one's flesh/side, bitter pill, trial, nuisance, pest   v. cause great suffering to. ""political methods used to scourge and oppress workers"" synonyms: afflict, plague, torment, torture, curse, cause suffering to, oppress, burden, bedevil, beset"
actuality	"/ˌak(t)SHəˈwalədē/ n. actual existence, typically as contrasted with what was intended, expected, or believed. ""the building looked as impressive in actuality as it did in magazines"" synonyms: reality, fact, truth, the real world, real life, existence, living   n. existing conditions or facts. ""the grim actualities of prison life"""
comely	"/ˈkəmlē/ adj. (typically of a woman) pleasant to look at; attractive. ""the comely Italian actress Valeria Golino"" synonyms: attractive, good-looking, nice-looking, beautiful, pretty, handsome, lovely, stunning, striking, arresting, gorgeous, prepossessing, winning, fetching, captivating, bewitching, beguiling, engaging, charming, charismatic, enchanting, appealing, delightful, irresistible   adj. agreeable; suitable. ""a comely specimen"""
exquisite	"/ˈekˌskwizət/ adj. extremely beautiful and, typically, delicate. ""exquisite, jewellike portraits"" synonyms: beautiful, lovely, elegant, graceful"
encumbrance	"/inˈkəmb(ə)rəns/ n. a burden or impediment. ""the horse raised its hind leg as if to rid itself of an encumbrance"" synonyms: hindrance, obstruction, obstacle, impediment, restraint, constraint, handicap, inconvenience, nuisance, disadvantage, drawback"
quibble	"/ˈkwibəl/ n. a slight objection or criticism about a trivial matter. ""the only quibble about this book is the price"" synonyms: minor criticism, trivial objection, trivial complaint, adverse comment, protest, query, argument, exception, moan, grumble, grouse, cavil   v. argue or raise objections about a trivial matter. ""they are always quibbling about the amount they are prepared to pay"" synonyms: find fault with, raise trivial objections to, complain about, object to, cavil at, carp about"
exult	"/iɡˈzəlt/ v. feel or show triumphant elation or jubilation. ""exulting in her escape, Lisa closed the door behind her"" synonyms: rejoice, be joyful, be happy, be pleased, be glad, be delighted, be elated, be ecstatic, be euphoric, be overjoyed, be as pleased as Punch, be cock-a-hoop, be jubilant, be rapturous, be in raptures, be transported, be beside oneself with joy, be delirious, be thrilled, jump for joy, be on cloud nine, be walking/treading on air, be in seventh heaven, glory, triumph, be triumphant"
paramount	"/ˈperəˌmount/ adj. more important than anything else; supreme. ""the interests of the child are of paramount importance"" synonyms: most important, of greatest importance, of prime importance, of supreme importance"
tactless	"/ˈtak(t)ləs/ adj. having or showing a lack of adroitness and sensitivity in dealing with others or with difficult issues. ""a tactless remark"" synonyms: insensitive, inconsiderate, thoughtless, unthinking, indelicate, undiplomatic, impolitic, indiscreet, unsubtle, clumsy, heavy-handed, graceless, awkward, unpolished, inept, bungling, maladroit, gauche, undiscerning, unsophisticated"
mark	"/märk/v. write a word or symbol on (an object), typically for identification. ""she marked all her possessions with her name"" synonyms: put one's name on, name, initial, put one's seal on, label, tag, hallmark, watermark, brand, stamp, earmark    v. show the position of. ""the top of the pass marks the border between Alaska and the Yukon""   v. notice or pay careful attention to. ""he'll leave you, you mark my words !"" synonyms: take heed of, pay heed to, heed, listen to, take note/notice of, pay attention to, attend to, note, mind, bear in mind, give (a) thought to, take into consideration, take to heart; archaicregard ""it'll cause trouble, you mark my words!"""
coyness	"/ˈkoinəs/ n. (especially in a woman) the quality of feigning shyness or modesty in an attempt to seem alluring. synonyms: archness, simpering, coquettishness, flirtatiousness, kittenishness, skittishness   n. the quality of being reluctant to give details about something regarded as sensitive; reticence. ""the company's coyness about their spring offering"""
acquiescent	"/ˌakwēˈes(ə)nt/ adj. ready to accept something without protest, or to do what someone else wants. ""the unions were acquiescent and there was no overt conflict"" synonyms: compliant, complying, consenting, cooperative, willing, obliging, agreeable, amenable, tractable, persuadable, easily persuaded, pliant, flexible, easy, unprotesting, resigned"
abolition	"/ˌabəˈliSH(ə)n/ n. the action or an act of abolishing a system, practice, or institution. ""the abolition of child labor"" synonyms: scrapping, ending, stopping, doing away with, termination, eradication, elimination, extermination, destruction, annihilation, obliteration, quashing, extirpation"
abominable	"/əˈbäm(ə)nəb(ə)l/ adj. causing moral revulsion. ""the uprising was suppressed with abominable cruelty"" synonyms: loathsome, detestable, hateful, odious, obnoxious, despicable, contemptible, damnable, cursed, accursed, diabolical   adj. very bad or unpleasant. ""a cup of abominable tea"""
dynastic	"/dīˈnastik/ adj. relating to a succession of people from the same family who play a prominent role in business, politics, or another field. ""the plot concerns the dynastic struggles of two brothers"""
paroxysm	"/ˈperəkˌsizəm/ n. a sudden attack or violent expression of a particular emotion or activity. ""a paroxysm of weeping"" synonyms: spasm, attack, fit, burst, bout, convulsion, seizure, outburst, outbreak, eruption, explosion, flare-up, access"
backhanded	"/bakˈhandəd/ adj. made with the back of the hand facing in the direction of movement. ""a backhanded pass""   adj. indirect; ambiguous or insincere. ""coming from me, teasing is a backhanded compliment"" synonyms: indirect, ambiguous, oblique, equivocal"
revolt	"/rəˈvōlt/ v. rise in rebellion. ""the insurgents revolted and had to be suppressed"" synonyms: rebel, rise up, rise, take to the streets, take up arms, riot, mutiny, take part in an uprising, show resistance   v. cause to feel disgust. ""he was revolted by the stench that greeted him"" synonyms: disgust, sicken, nauseate, make someone sick, make someone feel sick, make someone's gorge rise, turn someone's stomach, upset, be repugnant to, repel, repulse, be repulsive to, make someone's flesh crawl, make someone shudder, put off, offend, be offensive to, cause offense to, shock, horrify"
objective	"/əbˈjektiv/ adj. (of a person or their judgment) not influenced by personal feelings or opinions in considering and representing facts. ""historians try to be objective and impartial"" synonyms: impartial, unbiased, unprejudiced, nonpartisan, disinterested, nondiscriminatory, neutral, uninvolved, even-handed, equitable, fair, fair-minded, just, open-minded, dispassionate, detached, impersonal, unemotional, clinical ""an interviewer must try to be objective""   n. a thing aimed at or sought; a goal. ""the system has achieved its objective"" synonyms: aim, intention, purpose, target, goal, intent, object, end, end in view, grail, holy grail"
conspire	"/kənˈspī(ə)r/ v. make secret plans jointly to commit an unlawful or harmful act. ""they conspired against him"" synonyms: plot, hatch a plot, form a conspiracy, scheme, plan, lay plans, intrigue, collude, connive, collaborate, consort, machinate, maneuver, be/work hand in glove   v. (of events or circumstances) seem to be working together to bring about a particular result, typically to someone's detriment. ""everything conspires to exacerbate the situation"" synonyms: act together, work together, combine, join, unite, ally, join forces, cooperate"
cohesion	"/kōˈhēZHən/ n. the action or fact of forming a united whole. ""the work at present lacks cohesion"" synonyms: unity, togetherness, solidarity, bond, sticking together, continuity, coherence, connection, linkage, interrelatedness ""rewarding individuals breaks the cohesion in the group"""
negation	"/nəˈɡāSH(ə)n/ n. the contradiction or denial of something. ""there should be confirmation—or negation—of the findings"" synonyms: denial, contradiction, repudiation, disproving, refutation, refuting, rebuttal, countering, disclaiming   n. the absence or opposite of something actual or positive. ""evil is not merely the negation of goodness"" synonyms: opposite, reverse, antithesis, contrary, inverse, converse"
folklore	/ˈfōklôr/ n. the traditional beliefs, customs, and stories of a community, passed through the generations by word of mouth. synonyms: mythology, lore, oral history, tradition, folk tradition
jurisdiction	"/ˌjo͝orəsˈdikSH(ə)n/ n. the official power to make legal decisions and judgments. ""federal courts had no jurisdiction over the case"" synonyms: authority, control, power, dominion, rule, administration, command, sway, leadership, sovereignty, ascendancy, hegemony, mastery"
haggard	"/ˈhaɡərd/ adj. looking exhausted and unwell, especially from fatigue, worry, or suffering. ""I trailed on behind, haggard and disheveled"" synonyms: careworn, tired, drained, drawn, raddled"
backlit	"/ˈbakˌlīt/ v. illuminate from behind. ""a backlit LCD screen"""
byword	"/ˈbīˌwərd/ n. a person or thing cited as a notorious and outstanding example or embodiment of something. ""his name became a byword for luxury"" synonyms: perfect example of, classic case of, model of, exemplar of, embodiment of, incarnation of, personification of, epitome of, typification of   n. a word or expression summarizing a thing's characteristics or a person's principles. ""“Small is beautiful” may be the byword for most couturiers"" synonyms: slogan, motto, maxim, axiom, dictum, mantra, catchword, watchword, formula, cry, battle cry, rallying cry"
erratically	"/əˈradəklē/ adv. in a manner that is not even or regular in pattern or movement; unpredictably. ""he had been seen driving erratically minutes before the accident"""
premonition	"/ˌprēməˈniSH(ə)n/ n. a strong feeling that something is about to happen, especially something unpleasant. ""he had a premonition of imminent disaster"" synonyms: foreboding, presentiment, intuition, feeling, hunch, suspicion, sneaking suspicion, feeling in one's bones, funny feeling, vague feeling, inkling, idea, sixth sense"
unexpurgated	/ˌənˈekspərˌɡādəd/ adj. (of a text) complete and containing all the original material; uncensored.
well-to-do	"/ˌweltəˈdo͞o/ adj. wealthy; prosperous. ""a well-to-do family"" synonyms: wealthy, rich, affluent, moneyed, cash rich, with deep pockets, well off, prosperous, opulent, substantial, comfortable, propertied"
commission	"/kəˈmiSHən/ n. an instruction, command, or duty given to a person or group of people. ""he received a commission to act as an informer"" synonyms: task, employment, job, work, piece of work, project, mission, assignment, undertaking, exercise, enterprise, endeavor, solution   n. a group of people officially charged with a particular function. ""the United Nations High Commission for Refugees"" synonyms: committee, board, board of commissioners, council, panel, directorate, advisory body, advisorate, convocation, delegation ""their plan requires approval by an independent commission""   v. give an order for or authorize the production of (something such as a building, piece of equipment, or work of art). ""the portrait was commissioned by his widow in 1792"" synonyms: order, put in an order for, place an order for, contract for, pay for   v. bring (something newly produced, such as a factory or machine) into working condition. ""we had a few hiccups getting the heating equipment commissioned"""
indicative	"/inˈdikədiv/ adj. serving as a sign or indication of something. ""having recurrent dreams is not necessarily indicative of any psychological problem"" synonyms: symptomatic, expressive, suggestive, evocative, typical, characteristic, representative, symbolic, emblematic ""the President's visit was indicative of improving diplomatic relations"""
unglamorous	"/ˌənˈɡlam(ə)rəs/ adj. lacking glamour and excitement. ""an unglamorous family car"""
redouble	"/rēˈdəb(ə)l/ v. make or become much greater, more intense, or more numerous. ""we will redouble our efforts to reform agricultural policy"""
insofar	"/ˌinsōˈfär/ adv. to the extent that. ""the tool is able to cater to almost any need insofar as graphs are concerned"""
whisk	"/(h)wisk/v. take or move (someone or something) in a particular direction suddenly and quickly. ""his jacket was whisked away for dry cleaning"" synonyms: speed, hurry, rush, catapult   v. beat or stir (a substance, especially cream or eggs) with a light, rapid movement. synonyms: whip, beat, stir/mix vigorously ""whisk the yolks with half the sugar"""
favor	"/ˈfāvər/ n. approval, support, or liking for someone or something. ""the legislation is viewed with favor"" synonyms: approval, approbation, commendation, esteem, goodwill, kindness, benevolence, friendliness ""she looked on him with favor""   n. an act of kindness beyond what is due or usual. ""I've come to ask you a favor"" synonyms: good turn, service, kind act, good deed, act of kindness, kindness, courtesy, indulgence   v. feel or show approval or preference for. ""slashing public spending is a policy that few politicians favor"" synonyms: advocate, recommend, advise, subscribe to, approve of, look on with favor, be in favor of, support, back, champion   v. (often used in polite requests) give someone (something that they want). ""please favor me with an answer"" synonyms: oblige, accommodate, gratify, satisfy, humor, indulge, pander to, put oneself out for; honor ""he favored Lucy with a smile"""
vanity	"/ˈvanədē/ n. excessive pride in or admiration of one's own appearance or achievements. ""it flattered his vanity to think I was in love with him"" synonyms: conceit, conceitedness, self-conceit, narcissism, self-love, self-admiration, self-regard, self-absorption, self-obsession, self-centredness, egotism, egoism, egocentrism, egomania   n. the quality of being worthless or futile. ""the vanity of human wishes"" synonyms: futility, uselessness, pointlessness, worthlessness, purposelessness, idleness, fruitlessness, profitlessness ""the vanity of all desires of the will"""
atavistic	"/ˌadəˈvistik/ adj. relating to or characterized by reversion to something ancient or ancestral. ""atavistic fears and instincts"""
creed	"/krēd/ n. a system of Christian or other religious belief; a faith. ""people of many creeds and cultures"" synonyms: faith, religion, religious belief(s), religious persuasion, religious conviction, religious group, faith community, church   n. a set of beliefs or aims which guide someone's actions. ""liberalism was more than a political creed"""
denigrate	"/ˈdenəˌɡrāt/ v. criticize unfairly; disparage. ""there is a tendency to denigrate the poor"" synonyms: disparage, belittle, diminish, deprecate, cast aspersions on, decry, criticize unfairly, attack, speak ill of, speak badly of, blacken the character of, blacken the name of, give someone a bad name, sully the reputation of, spread lies about, defame, slander, libel, calumniate, besmirch, run down, abuse, insult, slight, revile, malign, vilify"
intact	"/inˈtakt/ adj. not damaged or impaired in any way; complete. ""the church was almost in ruins but its tower remained intact"" synonyms: whole, entire, complete, unbroken, undamaged, unharmed, uninjured, unimpaired, unflawed, faultless, flawless, unscathed, untouched, unspoiled, unmutilated, unsevered, unblemished, unmarred, unmarked, perfect, pristine, inviolate, unviolated, undefiled, unsullied, in one piece"
consignment	"/kənˈsīnmənt/ n. a batch of goods destined for or delivered to someone. ""a consignment of beef"" synonyms: delivery, shipment, load, containerload, shipload, boatload, lorryload, truckload, cargo"
recourse	"/rēˈkôrs/ n. a source of help in a difficult situation. ""surgery may be the only recourse"" synonyms: option, possibility, alternative, possible course of action, resort, way out, place/person to turn to, source of assistance, available resource, hope, remedy, choice, expedient; refuge   n. the use of someone or something as a source of help in a difficult situation. ""a means of solving disputes without recourse to courts of law"" synonyms: resort to, make use of, use, avail oneself of, utilize, employ, turn to, call on, draw on, bring into play, bring into service, look to, appeal to"
achromatic	"/ˌakrəˈmadik/ adj. relating to, using, or denoting lenses that transmit light without separating it into constituent colours.  ""achromatic microscopes""   adj. without colour.  ""the achromatic gloom"""
accost	"/əˈkôst/ v. approach and address (someone) boldly or aggressively. ""reporters accosted him in the street"" synonyms: speak to, talk to, call to, shout to, hail, initiate a discussion with"
apostate	"/əˈpäˌstāt/ n. a person who renounces a religious or political belief or principle. synonyms:dissenter, heretic, nonconformist   adj. abandoning a religious or political belief or principle. ""an apostate Roman Catholic"""
apologist	"/əˈpäləjəst/ n. a person who offers an argument in defense of something controversial. ""an enthusiastic apologist for fascism in the 1920s"" synonyms:defender, supporter, upholder, advocate, proponent, exponent, propagandist, apostle, champion, backer, promoter, campaigner, spokesman, spokeswoman, spokesperson, speaker, arguer, enthusiast   ""an apologist for hard-line government policies"""
antithetical	"/ˌan(t)əˈTHedək(ə)l/ adj. directly opposed or contrasted; mutually incompatible. ""people whose religious beliefs are antithetical to mine"" synonyms:(directly) opposed to, contrary to, contradictory to, conflicting with, incompatible with, irreconcilable with, inconsistent with, at variance with, at odds with, contrasting with, different from/to, differing from, divergent from, unlike"
anaerobic	"/ˌanəˈrōbik/ adj. relating to, involving, or requiring an absence of free oxygen. ""anaerobic bacteria""   adj. relating to or denoting exercise that does not improve or is not intended to improve the efficiency of the body's cardiovascular system in absorbing and transporting oxygen."
agog	"/əˈɡäɡ/ adj. very eager or curious to hear or see something. ""I'm all agog to see London"" synonyms:eager, excited, impatient, in suspense, on tenterhooks, on the edge of one's seat, on pins and needles, keen, anxious, longing"
agglutinate	"/əˈɡlo͞otnˌāt/ v. firmly stick or be stuck together to form a mass. ""this secretion may form crusts agglutinating the eyelids"""
agape	"/əˈɡāp/ adj. (of the mouth) wide open, especially with surprise or wonder.  ""Downes listened, mouth agape with incredulity"""
affix	"/əˈfiks/ v. stick, attach, or fasten (something) to something else. ""he licked the stamp and affixed it to the envelope"" synonyms: attach, stick, fasten, bind, fix, post, secure, join, connect, couple"
aerate	"/ˈerāt/ v. introduce air into (a material).  ""before seeding, consider aerating the lawn"""
archipelago	"/ˌärkəˈpeləˌɡō/ n. a group of islands. ""the Indonesian archipelago"""
argot	"/ˈärɡō/ n. the jargon or slang of a particular group or class. ""teenage argot"" synonyms:jargon, slang, idiom, cant, dialect, parlance, patter, speech, vernacular, patois, terminology, language, tongue, -speak"
barb	/bärb/ n. a sharp projection near the end of an arrow, fishhook, or similar item, angled away from the main point so as to make extraction difficult. synonyms:spike, prong, point, projection, spur, thorn, needle, prickle, spine, quill, bristle, tine
barefaced	"/ˈberˌfāst/ adj. shameless and undisguised. ""a barefaced lie"" synonyms:flagrant, blatant, glaring, obvious, undisguised, unconcealed, overt, open, transparent, patent, evident, manifest, palpable, unmistakable"
bawdy	/ˈbôdē/ adj. dealing with sexual matters in a comical way; humorously indecent. synonyms:ribald, indecent, risqué, racy, rude, spicy, suggestive, titillating, naughty, improper, indelicate, indecorous, off color, earthy, broad, locker-room, Rabelaisian
bauble	/ˈbôbəl/ n. a small, showy trinket or decoration. synonyms:trinket, knickknack, ornament, toy, novelty, curiosity, gimmick, plaything, trifle, frippery, gewgaw, gimcrack, bagatelle, bibelot, furbelow
blurb	/blərb/ n. a short description of a book, movie, or other product written for promotional purposes and appearing on the cover of a book or in an advertisement.
blight	"/blīt/ n. a thing that spoils or damages something. ""the vacant properties are a blight on the neighborhood"" synonyms:affliction, scourge, bane, curse, plague, menace, evil, misfortune, woe, calamity, trouble, ordeal, thorn in one's flesh/side, trial, tribulation, visitation, nuisance, pest, pollution, contamination, cancer, canker   ""the government are protecting people from the blight of aircraft noise""   v. have a severely detrimental effect on. ""the scandal blighted the careers of several leading politicians"" synonyms:ruin, wreck, spoil, disrupt, undo, mar, play havoc with, make a mess of, put an end to, end, bring to an end, put a stop to, prevent, frustrate, crush, quell, quash, dash, destroy, scotch, shatter, devastate, demolish, sabotage"
bibliophile	/ˈbiblēəˌfīl/ n. a person who collects or has a great love of books. synonyms:book lover
bevy	"/ˈbevē/ n. a large group of people or things of a particular kind. ""a bevy of big-name cameos will keep the adults entertained"" synonyms:group, gang, troop, troupe, party, company, band, body, crowd, pack, army, herd, flock, drove, horde, galaxy, assemblage, gathering"
benignant	"/bəˈniɡnənt/ adj. kindly and benevolent. ""an old man, with a face noble and benignant"""
belligerent	"/bəˈlijərənt/ adj. hostile and aggressive. ""a bull-necked, belligerent old man"" synonyms:hostile, aggressive, threatening, antagonistic, pugnacious, bellicose, truculent, confrontational, argumentative, quarrelsome, disputatious, contentious, militant, combative"
bedeck	"/bəˈdek/ v. decorate. ""he led us into a room bedecked with tinsel"" synonyms:decorate, adorn, ornament, trim, deck, enhance, beautify, prettify, embellish, furnish, garnish, grace, enrich, dress up, trick out"
bleach	"/blēCH/ v. whiten by exposure to sunlight or by a chemical process. ""paper products are bleached with chlorine"" synonyms:make/turn white, whiten, make/turn pale, make/turn pallid, blanch, lighten, fade, wash out, decolor, decolorize, peroxide, etiolate   v. clean and sterilize. ""a new formula to bleach and brighten clothing"""
cabal	"/kəˈbal/ n. a secret political clique or faction. ""a cabal of dissidents"" synonyms:clique, faction, coterie, group, set, band, party, camp, gang, ring, cell, sect, caucus, league, confederacy, junta"
busybody	"/ˈbizēˌbädē/ n. a meddling or prying person. ""others considered him an interfering busybody"" synonyms:meddler, interferer, mischief-maker, troublemaker, gossip, scandalmonger, muckraker, eavesdropper, intruder, ghoul, gawker"
burly	"/ˈbərlē/ adj. (of a person) large and strong; heavily built. ""I saw a burly figure approaching"" synonyms:strapping, well built, sturdy, sturdily built, powerfully built, broad-shouldered, brawny, strong, muscular, muscly, well muscled, athletic, thickset, big, hefty, bulky, robust, rugged, stocky, lusty, Herculean, vigorous"
breezeway	/ˈbrēzˌwā/ n. a roofed outdoor passage, as between a house and a garage.
brackish	"/ˈbrakiSH/ adj. (of water) slightly salty, as is the mixture of river water and seawater in estuaries. synonyms: slightly salty, slightly briny, saline, salt, salted  ""the fish lay their eggs in brackish water"""
bootless	"/ˈbo͞otləs/ adj. (of a task or undertaking) ineffectual; useless. ""words at this pass were vain and bootless"" synonyms:useless, ineffective, ineffectual, inefficacious, unproductive, fruitless, profitless, unrewarding, unsuccessful, nonsuccessful, without success, abortive, unavailing, to no avail, to no effect, to no purpose, futile, vain, in vain, pointless, worthless, nugatory"
reticence	"/ˈredəsəns/ n. the quality of being reticent; reserve. ""the traditional emotional reticence of the British"" synonyms:reserve, introversion, restraint, inhibition, diffidence, shyness, modesty, distance, undemonstrativeness"
unvarnished	"/ˌənˈvärniSHt/ adj. not covered with varnish. synonyms:bare, plain, unpainted, unlacquered, unpolished, unfinished, untreated, raw, natural, matt;    stripped ""the unvarnished wood paneling""   adj. (of a statement or manner) plain and straightforward. ""please tell me the unvarnished truth"" synonyms:straightforward, plain, simple, stark, naked, bald"
cavort	"/kəˈvôrt/ v. jump or dance around excitedly. ""spider monkeys leap and cavort in the branches"" synonyms:skip, dance, romp, jig, caper, cut capers, frisk, gambol, prance, frolic, play, lark"
cackle	"/ˈkak(ə)l/ v. make a harsh, raucous sound when laughing. ""she cackled with laughter"" synonyms:laugh loudly, laugh uproariously, guffaw, crow, chortle, chuckle, giggle, tee-hee;  ""Noel left the room, cackling with glee"""
camaraderie	"/ˌkäməˈrädərē,ˌkaməˈrädərē/ n. mutual trust and friendship among people who spend a lot of time together. ""a genuine camaraderie on the hockey team"" synonyms:friendship, comradeship, fellowship, good fellowship, companionship, brotherliness, brotherhood, sisterhood, closeness, affinity, togetherness, solidarity, mutual support"
captor	"/ˈkaptər,ˈkapˌtôr/ n. a person or animal that catches or confines another. ""he managed to escape from his captors two nights later"" synonyms:jailer, guard, incarcerator, custodian, keeper, enslaver;   detainer"
caretaker	"/ˈkerˌtākər/ n. a person employed to look after a public building or a house in the owner's absence. synonyms:janitor, warden, attendant, porter, custodian, keeper, watchman, steward, curator, concierge;    superintendent ""he works as a caretaker for a condominium"""
careworn	"/ˈkerˌwôrn/ adj. tired and unhappy because of prolonged worry. ""a careworn expression"" synonyms: worried, anxious, harassed, strained, stressed, under pressure, overburdened"
cartographer	"/kärˈtäɡrəfər/ n. a person who draws or produces maps.  ""a cartographer in the British army"""
cascade	"/kaˈskād/ n. a small waterfall, typically one of several that fall in stages down a steep rocky slope. synonyms:waterfall, falls, water chute, cataract, rapids, torrent, flood, deluge, outpouring, white water, fountain, shower, avalanche   n. a process whereby something, typically information or knowledge, is successively passed on. ""the greater the number of people who are well briefed, the wider the cascade effect""   v. (of water) pour downward rapidly and in large quantities. ""water was cascading down the stairs"" synonyms:pour, gush, surge, spill, stream, flow, issue, spurt, jet"
testament	"/ˈtestəmənt/ n. something that serves as a sign or evidence of a specified fact, event, or quality. ""growing attendance figures are a testament to the event's popularity"" synonyms: testimony, witness, evidence, proof, attestation"
edifice	"/ˈedəfəs/ n. a complex system of beliefs. ""the concepts on which the edifice of capitalism was built"""
swell	"/swel/ v. (especially of a part of the body) become larger or rounder in size, typically as a result of an accumulation of fluid. ""her bruised knee was already swelling up"" synonyms:expand, bulge, distend, become distended, inflate, become inflated, dilate, become bloated, bloat, blow up/out, puff up, balloon, fatten, fill out, tumefy, intumesce   ""she felt her top lip swell up as she tasted blood"""
outwit	"/ˌoutˈwit/ v. deceive or defeat by greater ingenuity. ""Ray had outwitted many an opponent"" synonyms:outsmart, outthink, outmanoeuvre, outplay, be cleverer than, steal a march on, trick, gull, make a fool of, get the better of"
aficionado	"/əˌfiSHəˈnädō,əˌfisyəˈnädō/ n. a person who is very knowledgeable and enthusiastic about an activity, subject, or pastime. ""aficionados of the finest wines"" synonyms: connoisseur, expert, authority, specialist, pundit, one of the cognoscenti, cognoscente, devotee, appreciator, fan, fanatic, savant"
prophet	"/ˈpräfət/ n. a person regarded as an inspired teacher or proclaimer of the will of God. ""the Old Testament prophet, Jeremiah"" synonyms:seer, soothsayer, forecaster of the future, fortune teller, clairvoyant, prognosticator, prophesier, diviner"
warmonger	"/ˈwôrˌməNGɡər/ n. a person who encourages or advocates aggression towards other countries or groups. synonyms:militarist, hawk, jingoist, saber-rattler, aggressor, provoker, belligerent   ""a trigger-happy warmonger"""
encompass	"/inˈkəmpəs,enˈkəmpəs/ v. surround and have or hold within. ""a vast halo encompassing the Milky Way galaxy"" synonyms:surround, enclose, ring, encircle, circumscribe, skirt, bound, border, fringe"
resuscitate	"/rəˈsəsəˌtāt/ v. revive (someone) from unconsciousness or apparent death. ""an ambulance crew tried to resuscitate him"" synonyms:bring round, revive, bring back, bring (back) to life, bring someone (back) to their senses, bring back to consciousness, rescue, save, bring back from the edge of death   v. make (something such as an idea or enterprise) active or vigorous again. ""measures to resuscitate the ailing Japanese economy"" synonyms:revive, resurrect, restore, regenerate, revitalize, breathe new life into, give the kiss of life to, give a new lease of life to, reinvigorate, renew, awaken, wake up, rejuvenate, stimulate, re-establish, reinstitute, relaunch  ""measures to resuscitate the economy"""
denote	"/dəˈnōt/ v. be a sign of; indicate. ""this mark denotes purity and quality"" synonyms:designate, indicate, be a sign of, be a mark of, signify, signal, symbolize, represent, stand for, mean"
chasten	"/ˈCHās(ə)n/ v. (of a rebuke or misfortune) have a restraining or moderating effect on. ""the director was somewhat chastened by his recent flops"" synonyms:subdue, humble, cow, squash, deflate, flatten, bring down, bring low, take down a peg or two, humiliate, mortify"
chide	"/CHīd/ v. scold or rebuke. ""she chided him for not replying to her letters"" synonyms:scold, chastise, upbraid, berate, castigate, lambaste, rebuke, reprimand, reproach, reprove, admonish, remonstrate with, lecture, criticize, censure"
cistern	/ˈsistərn/ n. a tank for storing water, especially one supplying taps or as part of a flushing toilet. synonyms:tank, reservoir, container
concerted	"/kənˈsərdəd/ adj. jointly arranged, planned, or carried out; coordinated. ""determined to begin a concerted action against them"" synonyms:joint, united, jointly planned, coordinated, collaborative, collective, combined, cooperative, interactive, synergetic   ""there were calls for concerted action"""
confluence	"/ˈkänˌflo͞oəns/ n. the junction of two rivers, especially rivers of approximately equal width. ""here at the confluence of the Laramie and North Platte Rivers"" synonyms:convergence, meeting, junction, joining, conflux, watersmeet ""the confluence of the Rhine and the Mosel""   n. an act or process of merging.  ""a major confluence of the world's financial markets"""
congeal	"/kənˈjēl/ v. solidify or coagulate, especially by cooling. ""the blood had congealed into blobs"" synonyms:coagulate, clot, cake, set, solidify, harden, thicken, stiffen, dry, gel, concentrate   v. take shape or coalesce, especially to form a satisfying whole.  ""the ballet failed to congeal as a single oeuvre"""
penance	"/ˈpenəns/ n. voluntary self-punishment inflicted as an outward expression of repentance for having done wrong. ""he had done public penance for those hasty words"" synonyms:atonement, expiation, self-punishment, self-mortification, self-abasement, reparation, amends, penalty, punishment"
embattled	"/əmˈbadld/ adj. (of a place or people) involved in or prepared for war, especially because surrounded by enemy forces. ""the embattled Yugoslavian republics""   adj. (of a person) beset by problems or difficulties.  ""the worst may not be over for the embattled senator"""
sumptuous	"/ˈsəm(p)(t)SH(o͞o)əs/ adj. splendid and expensive-looking. ""the banquet was a sumptuous, luxurious meal"" synonyms:lavish, luxurious, deluxe, opulent, magnificent, resplendent, gorgeous, splendid, grand, extravagant, lush, lavishly appointed, palatial, princely, rich, costly, expensive, impressive, imposing"
tuck	"/tək/ v. push, fold, or turn (the edges or ends of something, especially a garment or bedclothes) so as to hide them or hold them in place. ""he tucked his shirt into his trousers"" synonyms:push, ease, insert, slip   v. make a flattened, stitched fold in (a garment or material), typically so as to shorten or tighten it, or for decoration. synonyms:pleat, gather, fold, ruffle   ""the dress was pinned and tucked all over"""
cosmetic	"/käzˈmedik/ adj. involving or relating to treatment intended to restore or improve a person's appearance. ""cosmetic surgery"" synonyms:beautifying, improving, nonmedical"
corpulent	"/ˈkôrpyələnt/ adj. (of a person) fat. ""a short, somewhat corpulent man"" synonyms:fat, fattish, obese, overweight, plump, portly, stout, chubby, paunchy, beer-bellied, thickset, hefty, heavy, heavyset, burly, bulky, chunky, well padded, well covered, well upholstered, meaty, fleshy, rotund, round, well rounded, broad, broad in the beam, of ample proportions, big, large, gargantuan, elephantine"
corporeal	"/kôrˈpôrēəl/ adj. relating to a person's body, especially as opposed to their spirit. ""he was frank about his corporeal appetites""   adj. having a body. ""a corporeal God"" synonyms:bodily, fleshly, carnal, corporal, human, mortal, earthly"
coronation	"/ˌkôrəˈnāSH(ə)n,ˌkärəˈnāSH(ə)n/ n. the ceremony of crowning a sovereign or a sovereign's consort. ""the Queen's coronation"" synonyms:crowning, enthronement, enthroning, accession to the throne, investiture, anointing, inauguration   ""they built a tower to celebrate Victoria's coronation"""
controvert	"/ˈkäntrəˌvərt,ˌkäntrəˈvərt/ v. deny the truth of (something). ""subsequent work from the same laboratory controverted these results""   v. argue about (something).  ""the views in the article have been controverted"""
contrived	"/kənˈtrīvd/ adj. created or arranged in a way that seems artificial and unrealistic. ""the ending of the novel is too pat and contrived"" synonyms:forced, strained, studied, artificial, affected, put-on, pretended, false, feigned, manufactured, unnatural"
contort	"/kənˈtôrt/ v. twist or bend out of the normal shape. ""a spasm of pain contorted his face"" synonyms:twist, screw up, distort"
consuming	"/kənˈso͞omiNG/ adj. (of a feeling) completely filling one's mind and attention; absorbing. ""a consuming passion"" synonyms:absorbing, compelling, preoccupying, engrossing, all-consuming, compulsive, besetting"
consternation	"/ˌkänstərˈnāSH(ə)n/ n. feelings of anxiety or dismay, typically at something unexpected. ""I always welcomed clover, much to the consternation of the neighbors"" synonyms:dismay, perturbation, anxiety, distress, disquiet, disquietude, discomposure, angst, trepidation"
vault	"/vôlt/ v. leap or spring while supporting or propelling oneself with one or both hands or with the help of a pole. ""he vaulted over the gate"" synonyms:jump (over), leap (over), skip (over), leapfrog (over), spring over, bound over, sail over, hurdle, clear, pole-vault   n. a roof in the form of an arch or a series of arches, typical of churches and other large, formal buildings. synonyms:arched roof, arched ceiling, dome, arch   ""the vault was supported on eight massive stone piers""   n. a large room or chamber used for storage, especially an underground one. synonyms:cellar, basement, underground chamber, crypt, undercroft, catacomb, cavern"
tussle	"/ˈtəsəl/ n. a vigorous struggle or scuffle, typically in order to obtain or achieve something. ""there was a tussle for the ball"" synonyms:scuffle, fight, struggle, skirmish, brawl, scrimmage, scramble, scrum, fisticuffs, wrestling match, rough and tumble, free-for-all, fracas, fray, rumpus, melee, disturbance   v. engage in a vigorous struggle or scuffle. ""the demonstrators tussled with police"" synonyms:scuffle, fight, struggle, exchange blows, come to blows, brawl, grapple, wrestle, clash, scrimmage"
aglow	"/əˈɡlō/ adj. glowing.  ""his bald head aglow under the lights"""
rack	"/rak/ v. cause extreme physical or mental pain to; subject to extreme stress. ""he was racked with guilt"" synonyms:torment, afflict, torture, pain, agonize, cause agony/suffering/pain to, harrow, pierce, stab, wound, crucify"
outsmart	"/ˌoutˈsmärt/ v. defeat or get the better of (someone) by being clever or cunning. ""content with the illusion that they can outsmart the market"" synonyms:outwit, outthink, outmanoeuvre, outplay, be cleverer than, steal a march on, trick, make a fool of, get the better of"
dart	"/därt/ n. an act of running somewhere suddenly and rapidly. ""the cat made a dart for the door"" synonyms:dash, rush, run, bolt, break, charge, race, sprint, bound, spring, leap, jump, lunge, pounce, dive, swoop, gallop, scurry, scamper, stampede, scramble, start, flight   v. move or run somewhere suddenly or rapidly. ""she darted across the street"""
dapper	"/ˈdapər/ adj. (typically of a man) neat and trim in dress, appearance, or bearing. ""he looked very dapper in a dark silk suit"" synonyms:smart, spruce, trim, debonair, neat, tidy, neat and tidy, crisp, well dressed, besuited, well groomed, well turned out, smartly dressed, elegant, chic, dashing"
dank	"/daNGk/ adj. disagreeably damp, musty, and typically cold. ""huge dank caverns"" synonyms:damp, musty, chilly, clammy, wet, moist, unaired, moisture-laden, humid  ""he shivered as he entered the dank cellar"""
dally	"/ˈdalē/ v. act or move slowly. ""workers were loafing, dallying, or goofing off"" synonyms:dawdle, delay, loiter, linger, waste time, kill time, take one's time, while away time   v. have a casual romantic or sexual liaison with. ""he should stop dallying with movie stars"" synonyms:trifle, toy, play, amuse oneself, flirt, play fast and loose, tinker, philander, womanize, carry on"
daft	"/daft/ adj. silly; foolish. ""don't ask such daft questions"" synonyms:absurd, preposterous, ridiculous, ludicrous, farcical, laughable, risible   adj. infatuated with. ""we were all daft about him"" synonyms:infatuated with, enamored of, obsessed by, smitten with, besotted by, doting on, very fond of"
crux	"/krəks,kro͝oks/ n. the decisive or most important point at issue. ""the crux of the matter is that attitudes have changed"" synonyms:nub, heart, essence, most important point, central point, main point, essential part, core, center, nucleus, kernel   n. a particular point of difficulty. ""both cruces can be resolved by a consideration of the manuscripts"""
crotchety	"/ˈkräCHədē/ adj. irritable. ""he was tired and crotchety"" synonyms:bad-tempered, ill-tempered, ill-natured, ill-humored, peevish, cross, as cross as two sticks, irritable, irascible, short-tempered, hot-tempered, quick-tempered, touchy, testy, prickly, peppery, fractious, crusty, moody, cantankerous, curmudgeonly, crabbed, crabby, waspish, shrewish, grumpy, grouchy, disagreeable, churlish, surly, awkward, difficult, uncooperative, contrary, perverse, argumentative, quarrelsome"
croon	"/kro͞on/ v. hum or sing in a soft, low voice, especially in a sentimental manner. ""she was crooning to the child"" synonyms:sing softly, hum, lilt, carol, warble, trill, quaver  ""he crooned a few bars"""
crestfallen	"/ˈkres(t)ˌfôlən/ adj. sad and disappointed. ""he came back empty-handed and crestfallen"" synonyms:downhearted, downcast, despondent, disappointed, disconsolate, disheartened, discouraged, dispirited, dejected, depressed, desolate, heartbroken, broken-hearted, heavy-hearted, low-spirited, in the doldrums, sad, glum, gloomy, dismal, doleful, miserable, unhappy, woebegone, forlorn, long-faced, fed up"
peer	"/pir/   v. look keenly or with difficulty at someone or something. ""Blake screwed up his eyes, trying to peer through the fog"" synonyms:squint, look closely/earnestly, try to see, look through narrowed eyes, narrow one's eyes, screw up one's eyes"
bedevil	"/bəˈdevəl/ v. (of something bad) cause great and continual trouble to. ""inconsistencies that bedevil modern English spelling""   v. (of a person) torment or harass. ""he bedeviled them with petty practical jokes"" synonyms:afflict, torment, beset, assail, beleaguer, plague, blight, harrow, rack, oppress, harry, curse, dog"
delectable	"/dəˈlektəb(ə)l/ adj. (of food or drink) delicious. ""delectable handmade chocolates"" synonyms:delicious, mouthwatering, appetizing, flavorsome, flavorful, toothsome, inviting, very enjoyable, very palatable"
defame	"/dəˈfām/ v. damage the good reputation of (someone); slander or libel. ""he claimed that the article defamed his family"" synonyms:libel, slander, malign, cast aspersions on, smear, traduce, blacken the name/character of, give someone a bad name, defame someone's character, sully someone's reputation, run down, speak ill/evil of, back-bite, run a smear campaign against, calumniate, vilify, besmirch, tarnish, stigmatize, disparage, denigrate, discredit, decry, insult, lie about, tell lies about"
decant	"/dəˈkant/ v. gradually pour (liquid, typically wine or a solution) from one container into another, especially without disturbing the sediment. ""the wine was decanted about 40 minutes before being served"" synonyms: pour out, pour off, draw off, siphon off, drain, tap, tip, discharge, transfer   ""the wine was decanted into a clean flask"""
debark	"/dēˈbärk/ v. leave a ship or aircraft.  ""we debarked from our cruise ship for a day of fun"""
deadpan	"/ˈdedˌpan/ adj. deliberately impassive or expressionless. ""answers his phone in a deadpan tone"" synonyms:blank, expressionless, unexpressive, inexpressive, impassive, inscrutable, poker-faced, straight-faced, dispassionate, unresponsive, stony, wooden, empty, vacant, glazed, fixed, lifeless   ""he cracked jokes with a deadpan expression on his face"""
courier	"/ˈko͝orēər,ˈkərēər/ n. a company or employee of a company that transports commercial packages and documents. ""the check was dispatched by courier"" synonyms:messenger, special messenger, dispatch rider, letter carrier, mail carrier, runner, bearer, message bearer, message carrier, delivery man, delivery woman, conveyor, envoy, emissary, harbinger, herald"
vain	"/vān/ adj. having or showing an excessively high opinion of one's appearance, abilities, or worth. ""their flattery made him vain"" synonyms:conceited, narcissistic, self-loving, in love with oneself, self-admiring, self-regarding, wrapped up in oneself, self-absorbed, self-obsessed, self-centered, egotistic, egotistical, egoistic, egocentric, egomaniac   adj. producing no result; useless. ""a vain attempt to tidy up the room"" synonyms:futile, useless, pointless, worthless, nugatory, to no purpose, in vain"
repentance	"/rəˈpentəns/ n. the action of repenting; sincere regret or remorse. ""each person who turns to God in genuine repentance and faith will be saved"" synonyms:remorse, contrition, contriteness, penitence, sorrow, sorrowfulness, regret, ruefulness, remorsefulness, pangs of conscience, prickings of conscience, shame, guilt, self-reproach, self-condemnation, compunction"
skim	"/skim/ v. remove (a substance) from the surface of a liquid. ""as the scum rises, skim it off"" synonyms: remove, take off, scoop off, spoon off, ladle off    v. go or move quickly and lightly over or on a surface or through the air. ""he let his fingers skim across her shoulders"" synonyms: glide, move lightly, slide, sail, plane, scud, skate, float, coast"
tamp	"/tamp/ v. pack (a blast hole) full of clay or sand to concentrate the force of the explosion. ""when the hole was tamped to the top, gunpowder was inserted""   v. ram or pack (a substance) down or into something firmly.  ""he tamped down the tobacco with his thumb"""
manifestation	"/ˌmanəfəˈstāSH(ə)n,ˌmanəˌfesˈtāSH(ə)n/ n. an event, action, or object that clearly shows or embodies something, especially a theory or an abstract idea. ""the first obvious manifestations of global warming""   n. the action or fact of showing an abstract idea. ""the manifestation of anxiety over the upcoming exams"" synonyms:display, demonstration, showing, show, exhibition, presentation, indication, illustration, exemplification, exposition, disclosure, declaration, expression, profession   ""the manifestation of anxiety""   n. a symptom or sign of an ailment. ""a characteristic manifestation of Lyme disease"" synonyms:sign, indication, evidence, proof, token, symptom, testimony, substantiation, mark, symbol, reflection, example, instance   ""manifestations of global warming"""
offset	"/ˈôfˌset,ˈäfˌset/  n. a consideration or amount that diminishes or balances the effect of a contrary one. ""an offset against taxable profits""   n. the amount or distance by which something is out of line. ""these wheels have an offset of four inches""     /ˌôfˈset,ˈôfˌset/   v. counteract (something) by having an opposing force or effect. ""the deficit has been more than offset by capital inflows"" synonyms:counterbalance, balance, balance out, cancel, cancel out, even out/up, counteract, counterpoise, countervail, equalize, neutralize, nullify, compensate for, make up for, make good, redeem, indemnify   v. place out of line.  ""several places where the ridge was offset at right angles to its length"""
seem	"/sēm/ v. give the impression or sensation of being something or having a particular quality. ""Dawn seemed annoyed"" synonyms:appear, appear to be, have the appearance/air of being, give the impression of being, look, look like, look as though one is, look to be, have the look of, show signs of   v. used to make a statement or description of one's thoughts, feelings, or actions less assertive or forceful.  ""I seem to remember giving you very precise instructions"""
multitudinous	"/ˌməltəˈt(y)o͞od(ə)nəs/    adj. very numerous. ""the tinkling of multitudinous bells from the herd"" synonyms:numerous, many, abundant, profuse, prolific, copious, legion, teeming, multifarious, a thousand and one, innumerable, countless, uncounted, infinite, numberless, unnumbered, untold, incalculable;   adj. consisting of or containing many individuals or elements.  ""the multitudinous array of chemical substances that exist in the natural world"""
borderline	"/ˈbôrdərˌlīn/   adj. barely acceptable in quality or as belonging to a category; on the borderline. ""references may be requested in borderline cases"" synonyms:marginal, indefinite, uncertain, unsure, unsettled, undecided, up in the air, doubtful, open to doubt, problematic, indeterminate, unclassifiable, ambivalent, equivocal"
beneficiary	/ˌbenəˈfiSHēˌerē/   n. a person who derives advantage from something, especially a trust, will, or life insurance policy. synonyms:heir, heiress, inheritor, legatee
straddle	"/ˈstradl/ v. sit or stand with one leg on either side of. ""he turned the chair around and straddled it"" synonyms:sit/stand astride, bestride, bestraddle   n. an act of sitting or standing with one's legs wide apart."
impose	"/imˈpōz/ v. force (something unwelcome or unfamiliar) to be accepted or put in place. ""the decision was theirs and was not imposed on them by others"" synonyms:foist, force, thrust, inflict, obtrude, press, urge   v. take advantage of someone by demanding their attention or commitment. ""she realized that she had imposed on Miss Hatherby's kindness"" synonyms:take advantage of, abuse, exploit, take liberties with, misuse, ill-treat, treat unfairly, manipulate"
consecutive	"/kənˈsɛkjʊtɪv/   adj. following each other continuously. ""five consecutive months of serious decline"" synonyms:successive, succeeding, following, in succession, running, in a row, one after the other, back-to-back, continuous, solid, straight, uninterrupted, unbroken  ""shares prices fell for three consecutive days"""
tarry	"/ˈtari/v. stay longer than intended; delay leaving a place. ""she could tarry a bit and not get home until four"" synonyms: linger, loiter, procrastinate, pause, delay, wait, lag, dawdle"
intoxication	"/ɪnˌtɒksɪˈkeɪʃn/   n. the state of being intoxicated, especially by alcohol. ""signs of intoxication"" synonyms:drunkenness, inebriation, insobriety, tipsiness, stupefaction"
tendril	"/ˈtɛndrɪl/   n. a slender threadlike appendage of a climbing plant, often growing in a spiral form, that stretches out and twines round any suitable support.   n.something resembling a plant tendril, especially a slender curl or ringlet of hair.  ""the wind fitfully moved the dark tendrils around her forehead"""
screech	"/skriːtʃ/    v. (of a person or animal) give a loud, harsh, piercing cry. ""she hit her brother, causing him to screech with pain"" synonyms:shriek, squeal, squawk, howl, shout, yell, bellow, bawl, cry out, call out, yawp, yelp, wail, squall, caterwaul, whoop  ""‘Look what you've made me do!’ she screeched""   n. a loud, harsh, piercing cry. ""Mary tried to drown her screeches by shaking her""   ""the wailing rose in pitch to an awful screech"""
nomenclature	"/nə(ʊ)ˈmɛŋklətʃə,ˈnəʊmənˌkleɪtʃə/   n. the devising or choosing of names for things, especially in a science or other discipline. ""the Linnean system of zoological nomenclature""   n. the term or terms applied to someone or something. ""‘customers’ was preferred to the original nomenclature ‘passengers’"""
adage	"/ˈadɪdʒ/   n. a proverb or short statement expressing a general truth. ""the old adage ‘out of sight out of mind’"" synonyms:saying, maxim, axiom, proverb, aphorism, saw, dictum, precept, epigram, epigraph, motto, truism, platitude, cliché, commonplace"
insurmountable	"/ˌɪnsəˈmaʊntəb(ə)l/ adj. too great to be overcome. ""an insurmountable problem"" synonyms:insuperable, unconquerable, invincible, unassailable"
eventuate	"/ɪˈvɛn(t)ʃʊeɪt/ v. occur as a result. ""you never know what might eventuate"" synonyms:happen, occur, take place, chance to happen, arise, emerge, come about, transpire, materialize, appear, surface, crop up, spring up, present itself"
leaven	"/ˈlɛv(ə)n/   n. a substance, typically yeast, that is used in dough to make it rise. synonyms:leavening, ferment, fermentation agent, raising agent, yeast, barm, baking powder   ""leaven is added to the dough and the dough is left to rise""   n. a pervasive influence that modifies something or transforms it for the better. ""they acted as an intellectual leaven to the warriors who dominated the city""   v. cause (dough or bread) to rise by adding leaven. ""leavened breads are forbidden during Passover"" synonyms:raise, make rise, ferment, work, lighten, puff up, expand, swell, inflate   ""the biscuits are light because they use both yeast and baking powder to leaven the flour""   v. permeate and modify or transform (something) for the better. ""the proceedings should be leavened by humour"" synonyms:permeate, infuse, pervade, penetrate, imbue, suffuse, transform, modify"
presuppose	"/priːsəˈpəʊz/   v. require as a precondition of possibility or coherence. ""their original prediction presupposed a universe only three billion years old"" synonyms:require, necessitate, imply, entail, mean, involve, assume, suppose, have as a necessary condition, have as a precondition   ""the following course of action presupposes the existence of a policy-making group""   v. tacitly assume at the beginning of a line of argument or course of action that something is the case. ""your argument presupposes that it does not matter who is in power"" synonyms:presume, assume, take it for granted, take it, take it as read/given, suppose, surmise, think, accept, consider, postulate, posit   ""I had presupposed that theme parks make people happy"""
rear	"/rɪə/   v. bring up and care for (a child) until they are fully grown. ""Nigel was born and reared in Bath"" synonyms: bring up, care for, look after, nurture, parent   n. the back part of something, especially a building or vehicle. ""the kitchen door at the rear of the house"" synonyms: back, back part, hind part, back end, other end; More       antonyms:front"
dictum	"/ˈdɪktəm/   n. a formal pronouncement from an authoritative source. ""the dicta of High Court Judges"" synonyms:pronouncement, proclamation, direction, injunction, assertion, statement   n. a short statement that expresses a general truth or principle. ""the old dictum ‘might is right’"" synonyms:saying, maxim, axiom, proverb, adage, aphorism, saw, precept, epigram, epigraph, motto, truism, platitude, commonplace"
conflate	"/kənˈfleɪt/   v. combine (two or more sets of information, texts, ideas, etc.) into one.  ""the urban crisis conflates a number of different economic, political, and social issues"""
understatement	"/ʌndəˈsteɪtm(ə)nt,ˈʌndəsteɪtm(ə)nt/ n. the presentation of something as being smaller or less good or important than it really is. ""a master of English understatement"" synonyms:minimization, trivialization, euphemism"
avalanche	"/ˈavəlɑːnʃ/    n. a mass of snow, ice, and rocks falling rapidly down a mountainside. ""he was swept to his death by an avalanche in 1988"" synonyms:snowslide, snow slip   n. a sudden arrival or occurrence of something in overwhelming quantities. ""we have had an avalanche of applications for the post"" synonyms:barrage, volley"
unexampled	"/ʌnɪɡˈzɑːmp(ə)ld,ʌnɛɡˈzɑːmp(ə)ld/   adj. having no precedent or parallel.  ""a regime which brought such unexampled disaster on its people"""
taxon	/ˈtaksɒn/   n. a taxonomic group of any rank, such as a species, family, or class.
prickly	"/ˈprɪkli/   adv. covered in prickles. ""masses of prickly brambles"" synonyms:spiky, spiked, thorny, barbed, spiny, pronged, bristled, bristly   adv. (of a person) ready to take offence. ""she came across as prickly and generally difficult"" synonyms:irritable, irascible, peevish, fractious, fretful, cross, crabbed, crabby, crotchety, cantankerous, curmudgeonly, disagreeable, miserable, morose, petulant, pettish, peppery, on edge, edgy, impatient, complaining, querulous, bitter, moody, huffy, grumpy, scratchy, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, ill-natured, ill-humoured, sullen, surly, sulky, sour, churlish, touchy, testy, tetchy, grouchy, snappish, waspish, crusty, bilious, liverish, dyspeptic, splenetic, choleric"
vagrant	/ˈveɪɡr(ə)nt/   n. a person without a settled home or regular work who wanders from place to place and lives by begging. synonyms:tramp, drifter, down-and-out, derelict, beggar, itinerant, wanderer, nomad, wayfarer, traveller, gypsy, rover, vagabond, transient, migrant, homeless person, beachcomber, person of no fixed address/abode, knight of the road, bird of passage, rolling stone
flinch	"/ˈflɪn(t)ʃ/   v. make a quick, nervous movement as an instinctive reaction to fear, pain, or surprise. ""she flinched at the acidity in his voice"" synonyms:wince, start, shy (away), recoil, shrink, pull back, back away, shy away, draw back, withdraw, blench, cringe, squirm, quiver, shudder, shiver, tremble, quake, shake, quail, cower, waver, falter, hesitate, get cold feet, blanch   ""Curtis flinched as the passenger window imploded"""
perverse	"/pəˈvəːs/   adj. showing a deliberate and obstinate desire to behave in a way that is unreasonable or unacceptable. ""Kate's perverse decision not to cooperate held good"" synonyms:awkward, contrary, difficult, unreasonable, uncooperative, unhelpful, obstructive, disobliging, unaccommodating, troublesome, tiresome, annoying, vexatious, obstreperous, disobedient, unmanageable, uncontrollable, recalcitrant, refractory, rebellious   adj. contrary to the accepted or expected standard or practice. ""in two general elections the outcome was quite perverse"" synonyms:illogical, irrational, unreasonable, contradictory, wrong, wrong-headed, incorrect, irregular, inappropriate, unorthodox  ""juries often come up with a verdict that is manifestly perverse"""
stirring	"/ˈstəːrɪŋ/   adj. causing excitement or strong emotion; rousing. ""stirring songs"" synonyms:exciting, thrilling, action-packed, gripping, riveting, dramatic, rousing, spirited, stimulating, moving, inspiring, inspirational, electrifying, passionate, impassioned, emotive, emotional, emotion-charged, heady, soul-stirring"
stash	"/staʃ/   v. store (something) safely in a hidden or secret place. ""their wealth had been stashed away in Swiss banks"" synonyms:store, stow, pack, load, cache, garner, hide, conceal, secrete"
accredited	"/əˈkrɛdɪtɪd/   adj. (of a person, organization, or course of study) officially recognized or authorized.  ""an accredited practitioner"""
speciation	/ˌspiːʃɪˈeɪʃ(ə)n,ˌspiːsiːˈeɪʃ(ə)n/    n. the formation of new and distinct species in the course of evolution.
treatise	"/ˈtriːtɪs,ˈtriːtɪz/    n. a written work dealing formally and systematically with a subject. ""his treatise on Scottish political theory"" synonyms:disquisition, essay, paper, work, piece of writing, exposition, discourse, dissertation, thesis, monograph, study, critique"
people	"/ˈpiːp(ə)l/   v. (of a group of people) inhabit (a place). ""an arid mountain region peopled by warring clans"" synonyms:populate, settle (in), colonize, establish oneself in, inhabit, live in, occupy   v. ill or be present in (a place or domain). ""in her imagination the flat was suddenly peopled with ghosts"""
excerpt	"/ˈekˌsərpt/  n. a short extract from a film, broadcast, or piece of music or writing.   ""she read out excerpts from an article in the Times""     Similar: extract, part, section, piece, portion, fragment, snippet, clip      /ikˈsərpt/    v. take (a short extract) from a text.  ""the notes are excerpted from his forthcoming biography"""
orchard	"/ˈɔːtʃəd/   n. a piece of enclosed land planted with fruit trees.  ""an apple orchard"""
transducer	/tranzˈdjuːsə,trɑːnzˈdjuːsə,transˈdjuːsə,trɑːnsˈdjuːsə/   n. a device that converts variations in a physical quantity, such as pressure or brightness, into an electrical signal, or vice versa.
likeness	"/ˈlʌɪknəs/n. the fact or quality of being alike; resemblance. ""her likeness to him was astonishing"" synonyms:resemblance, similarity, alikeness, sameness, similitude, congruity, affinity, correspondence, analogy, parallelism, agreement, relationship, identity, identicalness, uniformity, conformity, equivalence   ""her likeness to Anne is quite uncanny""   n. the semblance, guise, or outward appearance of. ""humans are described as being made in God's likeness"" synonyms:semblance, guise, appearance, outward form, form, shape, image, aspect, character, mien   ""the feet of the bed were carved in the likeness of paws"""
virtuosity	"/ˌvəːtʃʊˈɒsɪti/n. great skill in music or another artistic pursuit. ""a performance of considerable virtuosity"" synonyms:skill, skilfulness, mastery, expertise, expertness, prowess, proficiency, ability, aptitude, adroitness, dexterity, deftness, excellence, brilliance, talent, genius, artistry, technique, art, creativity, flair, finish, polish, panache, finesse, wizardry, calibre, quality, professionalism"
leeway	"/ˈliːweɪ/   n. the amount of freedom to move or act that is available. ""the government had greater leeway to introduce reforms"" synonyms:freedom, scope, room to manoeuvre, latitude, elbow room, slack, space, room, liberty, room to spare, room to operate, scope for initiative, freedom of action, freedom from restriction, a free hand, flexibility, independence, licence, self-determination, free rein, free play, unrestrictedness, indulgence, margin, play, give, laxity, leisure"
teeter	"/ˈtiːtə/    v. move or balance unsteadily; sway back and forth.  ""she teetered after him in her high-heeled sandals""        v. be unable to decide between different courses; waver.   ""she teetered between tears and anger"""
imagery	"/ˈɪmɪdʒ(ə)ri/   n. visually descriptive or figurative language, especially in a literary work.   ""Tennyson uses imagery to create a lyrical emotion""          n. visual images collectively.  ""the impact of computer-generated imagery on contemporary art"""
wistful	"/ˈwɪs(t)fʊl,ˈwɪs(t)f(ə)l/   adj. having or showing a feeling of vague or regretful longing. ""a wistful smile"""
pugnacity	"/pʌɡˈnæsəti/ n. the quality of wanting to start an argument or fight, or of expressing an argument or opinion very forcefully  ""His pugnacity and controversial business dealings had made him unpopular."""
self-serving	\ ˌself-ˈsər-viŋ\ adj. serving one's own interests often in disregard of the truth or the interests of others
alarm	"/əˈlɑːm/   v. make (someone) feel frightened, disturbed, or in danger. ""the government was alarmed by an outbreak of unrest"""
welter	"/ˈwɛltə/  v. move in a turbulent fashion. ""the streams foam and welter""   n. a large number of items in no order; a confused mass. ""there's such a welter of conflicting rules"""
distillation	"/ˌdɪstɪˈleɪʃn/   n. the action of purifying a liquid by a process of heating and cooling. ""the petroleum distillation process""   n. the extraction of the essential meaning or most important aspects of something. ""this book represents the distillation of years of experience in the private sector"""
explication	"/ɛksplɪˈkeɪʃ(ə)n/   n. the process of analysing and developing an idea or principle in detail. ""this term is meaningless without further explication and analysis"""
downside	"/ˈdaʊnsʌɪd/  n. the negative aspect of something otherwise regarded as good or desirable. ""he says being a rock star is a fun line of work when you're young, but admits fame can have its downsides"""
prefigure	"/priːˈfɪɡə/    v. be an early indication or version of (something). ""the Hussite movement prefigured the Reformation""    Similar: foreshadow, be an early indication of, presage, be a presage of"
foreshadow	"/fɔːˈʃadəʊ/   v. be a warning or indication of (a future event). ""other new measures are foreshadowed in the White Paper"""
grumble	"/ˈɡrʌmb(ə)l/   v. complain about something in a bad-tempered way. ""‘I'm getting old,’ she grumbled""   n. a complaint. ""the main grumble is that he spends too much time away"""
cluck	"/klʌk/   v. (of a hen) make a short, low sound. ""the chickens clucked and scratched in the dirt""   n. the short, low sound made by a hen."
shrewd	"/ʃruːd/   adj. having or showing sharp powers of judgement; astute. ""she was shrewd enough to guess the motive behind his gesture"""
disorientate	"/dɪsˈɔːrɪɛnteɪt/   v. cause (someone) to lose their sense of direction. ""when he emerged into the street he was totally disorientated"""
withstand	"/wɪðˈstand/   v. remain undamaged or unaffected by; resist. ""the structure had been designed to withstand winds of more than 100 mph""   v. offer strong resistance or opposition to.  ""Constantinople withstood the eastern invaders"""
precede	"/prɪˈsiːd/   v. come before (something) in time. ""a gun battle had preceded the explosions""   v. come before in order or position. ""take time to read the chapters that precede the recipes"""
hectic	"/ˈhɛktɪk/   adj. full of incessant or frantic activity. ""a hectic business schedule"""
disenchantment	"/ˌdɪs(ɪ)nˈtʃɑːntm(ə)nt/   n. a feeling of disappointment about someone or something you previously respected or admired; disillusionment. ""their growing disenchantment with the leadership"""
spill	"/spɪl/   v. cause or allow (liquid) to flow over the edge of its container, especially unintentionally. ""you'll spill that tea if you're not careful""   v. reveal (confidential information) to someone. ""she ought not to be spilling out her troubles to you""   n. a quantity of liquid that has spilled or been spilt. ""wipe up spills immediately"""
commonality	"/kɒməˈnalɪti/   n. the state of sharing features or attributes. ""the explanations show a high degree of commonality in their reasoning"""
mannered	"/ˈmanəd/   adj. behaving in a specified way. ""bad-mannered""   adj. (of behaviour, art, or a literary style) marked by idiosyncratic or exaggerated mannerisms; artificial. ""inane dialogue and mannered acting"""
discretionary	"/dɪˈskrɛʃ(ə)n(ə)ri/   adj. available for use at the discretion of the user. ""there has been an increase in year-end discretionary bonuses""   adj. denoting or relating to investment funds placed with a broker or manager who has discretion to invest them on the client's behalf.  ""discretionary portfolios"""
quarry	"/ˈkwɒri/v. extract (stone or other materials) from a quarry. ""limestone is quarried for use in blast furnaces""   v. cut into (rock or ground) to obtain stone or other materials.  ""the hillside had been quarried for many years"""
plastic	"/ˈplastɪk/   adj. (of a substance or material) easily shaped or moulded. ""rendering the material more plastic"""
docket	"/ˈdɒkɪt/   v. mark (a consignment or package) with a document or label listing the contents. ""the clothes would be handed in and neatly docketed"""
brawl	"/brɔːl/   n. a rough or noisy fight or quarrel. ""he'd got into a drunken brawl in a bar""   v. fight or quarrel in a rough or noisy way. ""he ended up brawling with a lout outside his house"""
envisage	"/ɪnˈvɪzɪdʒ,ɛnˈvɪzɪdʒ/   v. contemplate or conceive of as a possibility or a desirable future event. ""the Rome Treaty envisaged free movement across frontiers"""
attributable	"/əˈtrɪbjʊtəb(ə)l/   adj. regarded as being caused by. ""43 percent of all deaths in Ireland were attributable to cardiovascular disease""   adj. (of a work or remark) able to be ascribed to a particular author, artist, or speaker.  ""some 50 liturgical works by or attributable to him have survived"""
going rate	n. the amount of money that something costs at the present time
injunction	/ɪnˈdʒʌŋ(k)ʃ(ə)n/   n. an authoritative warning or order.
simpleton	"/ˈsɪmp(ə)lt(ə)n/   n. a foolish or gullible person.  ""stop grinning at me like a simpleton"""
ideologue	"/ˈʌɪdɪəlɒɡ,ˈɪdɪəlɒɡ/   n. an adherent of an ideology, especially one who is uncompromising and dogmatic.   ""a right-wing ideologue"""
pertinent	"/ˈpəːtɪnənt/   adj. relevant or applicable to a particular matter; apposite.  ""she asked me a lot of very pertinent questions"""
all-important	"/ɔːlɪmˈpɔːt(ə)nt/ adj. vitally important; crucial.  ""the town's all-important tourist industry"""
anoint	"/əˈnɔɪnt/   v. smear or rub with oil, typically as part of a religious ceremony.  ""high priests were anointed with oil""   v. ceremonially confer divine or holy office upon (a priest or monarch) by smearing or rubbing with oil.  ""Samuel anointed him king"""
forgery	"/ˈfɔːdʒ(ə)ri/   n. the action of forging a copy or imitation of a document, signature, banknote, or work of art.  ""he was found guilty of forgery""   n. a forged document, signature, banknote, or work of art. plural noun: forgeries  ""the notes must be forgeries"""
stripped-down	"adj. reduced to essentials.   ""a pretty, stripped-down ballad"""
untutored	"/ʌnˈtjuːtəd/   adj. not formally taught or trained.  ""the species are all much the same to the untutored eye"""
snappy	"/ˈsnapi/   adj. irritable and inclined to speak sharply; snappish.  ""anything unusual made her snappy and nervous""   adj. cleverly concise; neat.  ""snappy catchphrases"""
abrasive	"/əˈbreɪsɪv/   adj. (of a substance or material) capable of polishing or cleaning a hard surface by rubbing or grinding.  ""the wood should be rubbed down with fine abrasive paper""   adj. showing little concern for the feelings of others; harsh.  ""her abrasive and arrogant personal style won her few friends"""
picturesque	"/ˌpɪktʃəˈrɛsk/   adj. (of a place or building) visually attractive, especially in a quaint or charming way.  ""ruined abbeys and picturesque villages""   adj. (of language) unusual and vivid.  ""the salad has no regional or picturesque name"""
fitfully	"/ˈfɪtf(ə)li,ˈfɪtfʊli/   adv. not regularly or continuously; intermittently.  ""he slept fitfully"""
modish	"/ˈməʊdɪʃ/   adj. conforming to or following what is currently popular and fashionable.  ""it seems sad that such a scholar should feel compelled to use this modish jargon"""
bay	"/beɪ/   v. (of a dog, especially a large one) bark or howl loudly.  ""the dogs bayed""   v. (of a group of people) shout loudly, typically to demand something.  ""the crowd bayed for an encore"""
daring	"/ˈdɛːrɪŋ/   adj. (of a person or action) adventurous or audaciously bold.  ""a daring crime""   n. adventurous courage.  ""the daring of the players brings fortune or ruin"""
considerate	"/kənˈsɪd(ə)rət/   adj. careful not to inconvenience or harm others.  ""she was unfailingly kind and considerate"""
hearken	"/ˈhɑːk(ə)n/   v. listen.  ""he refused to hearken to Tom's words of wisdom"""
mercantilism	/ˈməːk(ə)ntəˌlɪz(ə)m,məːˈkantɪlɪz(ə)m/ n. belief in the benefits of profitable trading.          n. the economic theory that trade generates wealth and is stimulated by the accumulation of profitable balances, which a government should encourage by means of protectionism.
viable	"/ˈvʌɪəb(ə)l/   adj. capable of working successfully; feasible.  ""the proposed investment was economically viable"""
supplication	"/ˌsʌplɪˈkeɪʃn/ n. the action of asking or begging for something earnestly or humbly.  ""he fell to his knees in supplication"""
passable	"/ˈpɑːsəb(ə)l/   adj. just good enough to be acceptable; satisfactory.  ""he spoke passable English""   adj. (of a route or road) clear of obstacles and able to be travelled on.  ""the road was passable with care"""
trope	"/trəʊp/   n. a figurative or metaphorical use of a word or expression.  ""both clothes and illness became tropes for new attitudes toward the self"""
contentment	"/kənˈtɛntm(ə)nt/   n. a state of happiness and satisfaction.  ""he found contentment in living a simple life in the country"""
entreaty	"/ɪnˈtriːti,ɛnˈtriːti/   n. an earnest or humble request.  ""the king turned a deaf ear to his entreaties"""
willful	"/ˈwɪlfʊl,ˈwɪlf(ə)l/ adj. (of a bad or harmful act) intentional; deliberate.  ""wilful acts of damage""   adj. having or showing a stubborn and determined intention to do as one wants, regardless of the consequences.  ""a spoiled, wilful child"""
disquietude	"/dɪsˈkwʌɪətjuːd/   n. a state of uneasiness or anxiety.   ""such passages reflect a sense of disquietude, of alienation even"""
whine	"/wʌɪn/   n. a long, high-pitched complaining cry.  ""the dog gave a small whine""   v. give or make a long, high-pitched complaining cry or sound.  ""the dog whined and scratched at the back door"""
wheedling	"/ˈwiːdlɪŋ/   adj. using flattery or coaxing in order to persuade someone to do something or give one something.   ""I could hear his wheedling tone as he begged her to dance""   n. the action of flattering or coaxing someone in order to persuade them to do something or give one something.   ""it took months of wheedling and cajoling, but her persistence was finally rewarded"""
undercut	"/ʌndəˈkʌt/   v. offer goods or services at a lower price than (a competitor).  ""these industries have been undercut by more efficient foreign producers""   v. cut or wear away the part below or under (something, especially a cliff).  ""the base of the crag is undercut permitting walkers to pass behind the falling water""     /ˈʌndəkʌt/ n. a space formed by the removal or absence of material from the lower part of something.    ""there may be some bigger fish in the safety of the undercut"""
bungling	"/ˈbʌŋɡlɪŋ/   n. the action or fact of carrying out a task clumsily or incompetently.    ""he was heavily criticized for his bungling of the case""     adj. making or characterized by many clumsy mistakes.  ""the work of a bungling amateur"""
stifle	"/ˈstīfəl/ v. make (someone) unable to breathe properly; suffocate.  ""those in the streets were stifled by the fumes""     synonyms: suffocate, choke, asphyxiate, smother, sweltering   v. restrain (a reaction) or stop oneself acting on (an emotion).  ""she stifled a giggle""     synonyms: suppress, smother, restrain, keep back, hold back"
amputate	"/ˈampyəˌtāt/   v. cut off (a limb) by surgical operation.  ""surgeons had to amputate her left hand"""
lopsided	"/ˈläpˌsīdəd,ˌläpˈsīdəd/ adj. with one side lower or smaller than the other.  ""a lopsided grin""   adj. disproportionately weighted in favor of one side over another.   ""a lopsided competition"""
shoddy	"/ˈSHädē/ adj. badly made or done.  ""we're not paying good money for shoddy goods""   n. an inferior quality yarn or fabric made from the shredded fiber of waste woolen cloth or clippings."
sclerotic	"/skləˈrädik/ adj. becoming rigid and unresponsive; losing the ability to adapt.  ""sclerotic management"""
flunk	"/fləNGk/   v. fail to reach the required standard in (an examination, test, or course of study).  ""I flunked biology in the tenth grade""   v. judge (a student or examination candidate) to have failed to reach the required standard.   ""the teacher flunked thirteen third-graders""   v. (of a student) leave or be dismissed from school or college as a result of failing to reach the required standard.   ""he had flunked out of college"""
downer	"/ˈdounər/   n. a depressant or tranquilizing drug, especially a barbiturate.       n. a dispiriting or depressing experience or factor.  ""the thought of the danger his son was in put something of a downer on the situation"""
creak	"/krēk/   v. (of an object or structure, typically a wooden one) make a harsh, high-pitched sound when being moved or when pressure or weight is applied.  ""the stairs creaked as she went up them""   v. show weakness or frailty under strain.    ""stock prices creaked to a mixed finish today""       n. a harsh scraping or squeaking sound.   ""the creak of a floorboard broke the silence"""
binge	"/binj/   n. a short period devoted to indulging in an activity to excess, especially drinking alcohol or eating.  ""he went on a binge and was in no shape to drive""   v. indulge in an activity, especially eating, to excess.   ""some dieters say they cannot help binging on chocolate"""
dip	"/dip/     v. put or let something down quickly or briefly in or into (liquid).  ""he dipped a brush in the paint""   v. put a hand or tool into (a bag or container) in order to take something out.  ""Ian dipped into his briefcase and pulled out a photograph""   n. a thick sauce in which pieces of food are dunked before eating.  ""tasty garlic dip"""
weather	"/ˈweT͟Hər/   v. wear away or change the appearance or texture of (something) by long exposure to the air.  ""his skin was weathered almost black by his long outdoor life"""
laughing stock	"/ˈlafiNGˌstäk/    n. a person subjected to general mockery or ridicule.   ""she was the laughingstock of her class"""
bid	"/bid/      v. offer (a certain price) for something, especially at an auction.  ""a consortium of dealers bid a world record price for a snuff box""         v. make an effort or attempt to achieve.  ""the two freshmen are bidding for places in the varsity swim team""   n. an offer of a price, especially at an auction.  ""several buyers made bids for the Van Gogh sketches""   v. utter (a greeting or farewell) to.  ""a chance to bid farewell to their president"""
crepitate	"/ˈkrepəˌtāt/      v. make a crackling sound.   ""the night crepitates with an airy whistling cacophony"""
pore	"/pôr/n. a minute opening in a surface, especially the skin or integument of an organism, through which gases, liquids, or microscopic particles can pass.     v. be absorbed in the reading or study of.  ""Heather spent hours poring over cookbooks"""
confidant	"/ˈkänfəˌdant,ˈkänfəˌdänt/   n. a person with whom one shares a secret or private matter, trusting them not to repeat it to others.  ""a close confidante of the princess"""
naught	"/nôt/   n. nothing.  ""he's naught but a worthless fool"""
jaunt	"/jônt/   n. a short excursion or journey for pleasure.  ""her little jaunt in France was over""   v. go on a short excursion or journey for pleasure.   ""they went jaunting through Ireland"""
livid	"/ˈlivid/   adj. furiously angry.  ""he was livid at being left out""   adj. dark bluish gray in color.  ""livid bruises"""
sleight	"/slīt/   n. the use of dexterity or cunning, especially so as to deceive.   ""except by sleight of logic, the two positions cannot be harmonized"""
beseech	"/bəˈsēCH/   v. ask (someone) urgently and fervently to do something; implore; entreat.  ""they beseeched him to stay"""
critique	"/kriˈtēk/   n. a detailed analysis and assessment of something, especially a literary, philosophical, or political theory.   v. evaluate (a theory or practice) in a detailed and analytical way.  ""the authors critique the methods and practices used in the research"""
iridescent	"/ˌirəˈdes(ə)nt/  adj. showing luminous colors that seem to change when seen from different angles.  ""the drake's head has an iridescent purple sheen"""
gawk	"/ɡôk/  v. stare openly and stupidly.  ""they were gawking at some pinup"""
no-brainer	"n. something that requires or involves little or no mental effort.  ""the enormous popularity of his TV show makes the book a no-brainer for him"""
red tape	"/ˈˌred ˈtāp/   n. excessive bureaucracy or adherence to rules and formalities, especially in public business.  ""this law will just create more red tape"""
opine	"/ōˈpīn/   v. hold and state as one's opinion.  ""“The man is a genius,” he opined"""
stud	"/stəd/   n. a large-headed piece of metal that pierces and projects from a surface, especially for decoration.     n. an upright support in the wall of a building to which sheathing, drywall, etc., are attached.     v. decorate or augment (something) with many studs or similar small objects.  ""a dagger studded with precious diamonds""   v. strew or cover (something) with a scattering of small objects or features.   ""the sky was clear and studded with stars"""
sojourn	"/ˈsōjərn/   n. a temporary stay.  ""her sojourn in Rome""   v. stay somewhere temporarily.  ""she had sojourned once in Egypt"""
covenant	"/ˈkəvənənt/   n. an agreement.     v. agree by lease, deed, or other legal contract.  ""the landlord covenants to repair the property"""
latch	"/laCH/   n. a metal bar with a catch and lever used for fastening a door or gate.     v. fasten (a door or gate) with a latch.  ""she latched the door carefully"""
attribute	"/əˈtriˌbyo͞ot/    v. regard something as being caused by (someone or something).  ""he attributed the firm's success to the efforts of the managing director""        /ˈatrəˌbyo͞ot/   n. a quality or feature regarded as a characteristic or inherent part of someone or something.  ""flexibility and mobility are the key attributes of our army""   n. a piece of information which determines the properties of a field or tag in a database or a string of characters in a display."
archetypal	"/ˌärkəˈtīp(ə)l/   adj. very typical of a certain kind of person or thing.  ""the archetypal country doctor""   adj. recurrent as a symbol or motif in literature, art, or mythology. ""an archetypal journey representing the quest for identity"""
shoo	"/SHo͞o/   v. make (a person or animal) go away by waving one's arms at them, saying “shoo,” or otherwise acting in a discouraging manner. ""I went to comfort her but she shooed me away"""
clique	"/klēk,klik/   n. a small group of people, with shared interests or other features in common, who spend time together and do not readily allow others to join them.  ""the old-school clique"""
conk	"/käNGk,kôNGk/       v. (of a machine) break down.  ""my car conked out""  v. (of a person) faint or go to sleep. ""he conked out on the rear seat"""
succulent	/ˈsəkyələnt/   adj. (of food) tender, juicy, and tasty.
remittance	"/rəˈmitns/   n. a sum of money sent, especially by mail, in payment for goods or services or as a gift.    ""complete your booking form and send it together with your remittance"""
echelon	"/ˈeSHəˌlän/   n. a level or rank in an organization, a profession, or society.  ""the upper echelons of the business world""   v. arrange in an echelon formation. ""the echeloning of fire teams"""
nihilism	/ˈnīəˌlizəm,ˈnēəˌlizəm/   n. the rejection of all religious and moral principles, in the belief that life is meaningless.
goody goody	/ˈˌɡo͝odē ˈˌɡo͝odē/  n. a smug or obtrusively virtuous person.       adj. smug or obtrusively virtuous.
ropy	"/ˈrōpē/   adj. resembling a rope, especially in being long, strong, and fibrous.  ""the ropy roots of the old tree""   adj. poor in quality or health; inferior.  ""a portrait by a pretty ropy artist"""
excursion	"/ikˈskərZHən/   n. a short journey or trip, especially one engaged in as a leisure activity.  ""an excursion to Mount Etna""   n. a deviation from a regular pattern, path, or level of operation."
reminisce	"/ˌreməˈnis/   v. indulge in enjoyable recollection of past events.  ""they reminisced about their summers abroad"""
lowkey	"/ˈlōˈˌkē/      adv. to some extent. ""this is low-key freaking me out"""
corny	"/ˈkôrnē/   adj. trite, banal, or mawkishly sentimental.  ""it sounds corny, but as soon as I saw her I knew she was the one"""
brunt	"/brənt/   n. the worst part or chief impact of a specified thing.  ""education will bear the brunt of the cuts"""
sedition	/səˈdiSH(ə)n/   n. conduct or speech inciting people to rebel against the authority of a state or monarch.
confounded	"/kənˈfoundəd,ˌkänˈfoundəd/   adj. used for emphasis, especially to express anger or annoyance.  ""he was a confounded nuisance"""
beget	"/bəˈɡet/    v. (typically of a man, sometimes of a man and a woman) bring (a child) into existence by the process of reproduction.  ""they hoped that the King might beget an heir by his new queen""   v. give rise to; bring about.  ""success begets further success"""
recollection	"/ˌrekəˈlekSH(ə)n/   n. the action or faculty of remembering something.  ""to the best of my recollection no one ever had a bad word to say about him""   n. a thing recollected; a memory. plural noun: recollections  ""a biography based on his wife's recollections"""
yawn	"/yôn/   v. involuntarily open one's mouth wide and inhale deeply due to tiredness or boredom. ""he began yawning and looking at his watch""   v. (of an opening or space) be very large and wide. ""she started inching back from the abyss that yawned before her"""
abyss	"/əˈbis/   n. a deep or seemingly bottomless chasm.  ""a rope led down into the dark abyss""   n. a wide or profound difference between people; a gulf. ""the abyss between the two nations"""
heuristic	"/hyo͞oˈristik/   adj. enabling someone to discover or learn something for themselves. ""a “hands-on” or interactive heuristic approach to learning"""
resort	"/rəˈzôrt/      n. a place that is a popular destination for vacations or recreation, or which is frequented for a particular purpose.  ""a seaside resort""   n. the action of turning to and adopting a strategy or course of action, especially a disagreeable or undesirable one, so as to resolve a difficult situation.  ""territorial questions must not be settled by resort to violence""   v. turn to and adopt (a strategy or course of action, especially a disagreeable or undesirable one) so as to resolve a difficult situation.  ""the duke was prepared to resort to force if negotiation failed"""
contrast	"/ˈkänˌtrast,kənˈtrast/ v. differ strikingly.  ""his friend's success contrasted with his own failure"""
fallow	"/ˈfalō/    adj. (of farmland) plowed and harrowed but left unsown for a period in order to restore its fertility as part of a crop rotation or to avoid surplus production.  ""incentives for farmers to let the land lie fallow in order to reduce grain surpluses""   n. a piece of fallow or uncultivated land. ""a great estate was usually divided between fallows, grazed stubble, and wheat""   v. leave (land) fallow. ""fallow the ground for a week or so after digging"""
spindly	"/ˈspin(d)lē/   adj. (of a person or limb) long or tall and thin.  ""spindly arms and legs""   adj. (of a thing) thin and weak or insubstantial in construction.  ""spindly chairs"""
heinous	"/ˈhānəs/   adj. (of a person or wrongful act, especially a crime) utterly odious or wicked.  ""a battery of heinous crimes"""
afterthought	"/ˈaftərˌTHôt/ n. an item or thing that is thought of or added later. ""as an afterthought she said “Thank you.”"""
strutting	"/ˈstrədiNG/   adj. having a stiff, erect, and apparently arrogant or conceited gait. ""the king marches in with a strutting military escort""   n. the action of walking with a stiff, erect, and apparently arrogant or conceited gait.  ""they performed some traditional dances that drew inspiration from the strutting of peacocks"""
stampede	"/stamˈpēd/ v. (of horses, cattle, or other animals) rush wildly in a sudden mass panic.  ""the nearby sheep stampeded as if they sensed impending danger"""
frothy	"/ˈfrôTHē/   adj. full of or covered with a mass of small bubbles.  ""steaming mugs of frothy coffee""    Similar: foaming, foamy, bubbling, bubbly, fizzy, sparkling, effervescent   adj. light and entertaining but of little substance.  ""lots of frothy interviews""     Similar: insubstantial, light, lightweight"
mutter	"/ˈmədər/   v. say something in a low or barely audible voice, especially in dissatisfaction or irritation.  ""he muttered something under his breath""     Similar: talk under one's breath, murmur, mumble, whisper   n. a barely audible utterance, especially one expressing dissatisfaction or irritation. ""a little mutter of disgust"""
contingency	"/kənˈtinjənsē/   n. a future event or circumstance which is possible but cannot be predicted with certainty.  ""a detailed contract that attempts to provide for all possible contingencies""     Similar: eventuality, (chance) event, incident, happening, occurrence, juncture"
elaborate	"/əˈlab(ə)rət/ adj. involving many carefully arranged parts or details; detailed and complicated in design and planning.  ""elaborate security precautions""      Similar: complicated, detailed, intricate, complex, involved, tortuous      /əˈlabəˌrāt/ v. develop or present (a theory, policy, or system) in detail.  ""the key idea of the book is expressed in the title and elaborated in the text"""
boot	"/bo͞ot/    v. kick (something) hard in a specified direction.   ""he ended up booting the ball into the stands""     Similar: kick, punt, bunt    v. start (a computer) and put it into a state of readiness for operation.  ""when I booted the computer I heard a extremely loud rattle""     Similar: start up, fire up, prepare, ready"
gushing	"/ˈɡəSHiNG/    adj. (of speech or writing) effusive or exaggeratedly enthusiastic.  ""gushing praise""     Similar: effusive, enthusiastic"
wallow	"/ˈwälō/ v. (chiefly of large mammals) roll about or lie relaxed in mud or water, especially to keep cool, avoid biting insects, or spread scent.  ""watering places where buffalo liked to wallow""     Similar: loll around, lie around, tumble around, splash around, slosh, wade   v. (of a person) indulge in an unrestrained way in (something that creates a pleasurable sensation).  ""I was wallowing in the luxury of the hotel""     Similar: luxuriate, bask, take pleasure, take satisfaction, indulge (oneself)"
muster	"/ˈməstər/   v. assemble (troops), especially for inspection or in preparation for battle.  ""17,000 men had been mustered on Haldon Hill""     Similar: assemble, bring together, call together, marshal, mobilize, rally   v. collect or assemble (a number or amount).  ""the city council was unable to muster enough votes to pass the measure"""
glower	"/ˈɡlou(ə)r/   v. have an angry or sullen look on one's face; scowl.  ""she glowered at him suspiciously""     Similar: scowl, glare, stare angrily, look daggers   n. an angry or sullen look.  ""the angry glower on the face of the policeman""     Similar: scowl, glare, angry stare, frown"
astride	"/əˈstrīd/   prep. with a leg on each side of. ""he was sitting astride the bike""   prep. extending across. ""the port stands astride an international route"""
connivance	"/kəˈnīvəns/   n. willingness to secretly allow or be involved in wrongdoing, especially an immoral or illegal act.  ""this infringement of the law had taken place with the connivance of officials""     Similar: collusion, complicity, collaboration, involvement, assistance, abetting"
miff	"/mif/   v. annoy.  ""she was slightly miffed at not being invited""     Similar: annoyed, displeased, offended, aggrieved, piqued, riled, nettled"
vainly	"/ˈvānlē/   adv. with an excessively high opinion of one's appearance, abilities, or worth. ""I stared at myself vainly in the mirror""   adv. in a way that produces no result; to no avail. ""I was vainly trying to get to sleep"""
stodgy	"/ˈstäjē/   adj. dull and uninspired.  ""some of the material is rather stodgy and top-heavy with facts""     Similar: boring, dull, uninteresting, dreary, deadly, prosaic, staid"
winnow	"/ˈwinō/   v. blow a current of air through (grain) in order to remove the chaff.  ""a combine cuts, threshes, and winnows the grain in one operation"""
ansatz	/ˈänˌsäts,ˈänˌzäts/      n. an assumption about the form of an unknown function which is made in order to facilitate solution of an equation or other problem.
autarky	"/ˈôˌtärkē/   n. economic independence or self-sufficiency. ""rural community autarchy is a Utopian dream""   n. a country, state, or society which is economically independent."
lurch	"/lərCH/   v. make an abrupt, unsteady, uncontrolled movement or series of movements; stagger.  ""the car lurched forward""     Similar: stagger, stumble, sway, reel, roll, weave, totter, flounder   n. an abrupt uncontrolled movement, especially an unsteady tilt or roll. ""the boat gave a violent lurch and he missed his footing"""
underpin	"/ˌəndərˈpin/   v. support (a building or other structure) from below by laying a solid foundation below ground level or by substituting stronger for weaker materials.   v. support, justify, or form the basis for. ""the theme of honor underpinning the two books"""
contrition	"/kənˈtriSH(ə)n/   n. the state of feeling remorseful and penitent.  ""to show contrition for his crime he offered to do community service""     Similar: remorse, remorsefulness, repentance, penitence"
syllogism	"/ˈsiləˌjizəm/   n. an instance of a form of reasoning in which a conclusion is drawn (whether validly or not) from two given or assumed propositions (premises), each of which shares a term with the conclusion, and shares a common or middle term not present in the conclusion (e.g., all dogs are animals; all animals have four legs; therefore all dogs have four legs ).   n. deductive reasoning as distinct from induction.  ""this school of epistemology is highly advanced in syllogism and logical reasoning"""
misconstrue	"/ˌmiskənˈstro͞o/   v. interpret (something, especially a person's words or actions) wrongly.  ""my advice was deliberately misconstrued""     Similar: misunderstand, misinterpret, put a wrong interpretation on, misconceive"
trickle	"/ˈtrik(ə)l/   v. (of a liquid) flow in a small stream.  ""a solitary tear trickled down her cheek""     Similar: drip, dribble, drizzle, flow, run, spill, ooze, leak, seep   v. come, go, or appear slowly or gradually.  ""the first members of the congregation began to trickle in""   n. a small flow of liquid.  ""a trickle of blood""     Similar: dribble, drip, thin stream, rivulet, runnel"
unheralded	"/ˌənˈherəldəd/   adj. not previously announced, expected, or recognized. ""he was unwilling to make an unheralded entrance"""
highbrow	"/ˈhīˌbrou/   adj. scholarly or rarefied in taste.  ""innovatory art had a small, mostly highbrow following""     Similar: intellectual, scholarly, bookish, cultured, cultivated, academic   n. a highbrow person.  ""she considered all those without television as highbrows, intellectual snobs, or paupers""     Similar: intellectual, scholar, academic, bluestocking"
egregiously	"/əˈɡrējəslē/ adv. in an outstandingly bad way; shockingly. ""we've been misleading you most egregiously"""
debar	"/dēˈbär/   v. exclude or prohibit (someone) officially from doing something.  ""they were debarred entry to the port""     Similar: exclude, ban, bar, disqualify, disentitle, declare ineligible, preclude"
queasy	"/ˈkwēzē/ adj. nauseated; feeling sick.  ""in the morning he was still pale and queasy""     Similar: nauseous, nauseated, bilious, sick           adj. slightly nervous or worried about something."
conduit	"/ˈkänˌd(y)o͞oət/   n. a channel for conveying water or other fluid.  ""a conduit for conveying water to the power plant""   n. a tube or trough for protecting electric wiring.  ""the gas pipe should not be close to any electrical conduit""     Similar: channel, duct, pipe, tube, gutter, groove, furrow, trough"
linchpin	"/ˈlin(t)SHpin/   n. a person or thing vital to an enterprise or organization.  ""regular brushing is the linchpin of all good dental hygiene""   n. a pin passed through the end of an axle to keep a wheel in position."
minnow	"/ˈmɪnəʊ/ n. a small or insignificant person or organization.  ""the paper is a minnow in the national newspaper mass market"""
despotic	"/dɪˈspɒtɪk/  adj. of or typical of a despot; tyrannical.  ""a despotic regime""     Similar: autocratic, dictatorial, totalitarian, authoritarian, absolute, absolutist"
apoplexy	"/ˈapəplɛksi/ n. extreme anger.  ""the decision has aroused apoplexy among environmentalists"""
thin-skinned	"adj. sensitive to criticism or insults.  ""he isn't the only successful politician to be cliquey and thin-skinned"""
bawl	"/bɔːl/ v. hout or call out noisily and unrestrainedly.  ""‘Move!’ bawled the drill corporal""    Similar: shout, call out, cry out, cry, yell, roar, bellow, screech  v. weep or cry noisily.  ""one by one the children all started bawling""     Similar: cry, sob, weep, shed tears, wail, blubber, snivel, whimper"
ensconce	"/ɪnˈskɒns,ɛnˈskɒns/ v. establish or settle (someone) in a comfortable, safe place.  ""Agnes ensconced herself in their bedroom""     Similar: settle, install, establish, park, shut, plant, lodge, position"
carp	"/kɑːp/ v. complain or find fault continually about trivial matters.  ""I don't want to carp about the way you did it""     Similar: complain, cavil, grumble, moan, grouse, grouch, whine, bleat"
subsist	"/səbˈsɪst/ v. maintain or support oneself, especially at a minimal level.  ""he subsisted on welfare and casual labour""     Similar: survive, live, stay alive, exist"
buffet	"/ˈbʌfɪt/ v. (especially of wind or waves) strike repeatedly and violently; batter.  ""rough seas buffeted the coast""    Similar: batter, pound  v. (of difficulties) afflict (someone) over a long period.  ""they were buffeted by a major recession""     Similar: afflict, trouble, harm, distress, burden, bother, beset, harass"
bestride	"/bɪˈstrʌɪd/ v. stand astride over; straddle.  ""he bestrode me, defending my prone body""    Similar: straddle, bestraddle, sit/stand astride  v. dominate.  ""he bestrides Alberta politics today""     Similar: dominate"
crow	"/krəʊ/   v. (of a person) express great pride or triumph, especially in a tone of gloating satisfaction.  ""Ruby crowed with delight""     Similar: boast, brag, trumpet, show off, bluster, swagger, swank"
capitalize	"/ˈkapɪt(ə)lʌɪz/ v. take the chance to gain advantage from.    Similar: take advantage of, profit from  v. provide (a company) with capital.  ""a highly capitalized industry""     Similar: finance, fund, underwrite"
fluke	"/fluːk/ n. an unlikely chance occurrence, especially a surprising piece of luck.  ""their victory was a bit of a fluke""    Similar: chance, coincidence, accident  v. achieve (something) by luck rather than skill."
opt	"/ɒpt/ v. make a choice from a range of possibilities.  ""consumers will opt for low-priced goods""     Similar: choose, select, pick, pick out"
doe-eyed	"adj. having large, gentle, dark eyes. ""portraits of doe-eyed children"""
eponymous	"/ɪˈpɒnɪməs/ adj. (of a person) giving their name to something.  ""the eponymous hero of the novel""  adj. (of a thing) named after a particular person or group. ""their eponymous debut LP"""
theocracy	"/θɪˈɒkrəsi/ n. a system of government in which priests rule in the name of God or a god.   ""his ambition is to lead a worldwide theocracy"""
stint	"/stɪnt/ v. supply a very ungenerous or inadequate amount of (something).  ""stowage room hasn't been stinted""  n. a person's fixed or allotted period of work.  ""his varied career included a stint as a magician""    Similar: spell, stretch, period, time, turn, run  n. limitation of supply or effort.  ""a collector with an eye for quality and the means to indulge it without stint"""
connote	"/kəˈnəʊt/ v. (of a word) imply or suggest (an idea or feeling) in addition to the literal or primary meaning.  ""the term ‘modern science’ usually connotes a complete openness to empirical testing""     Similar: imply, suggest, indicate, signify"
caesura	/sɪˈzjʊərə/   n. (in Greek and Latin verse) a break between words within a metrical foot.  n. (in modern verse) a pause near the middle of a line.
darndest	"n. best; utmost ""They did their damnedest to finish on time.""  adj. most amazing or extraordinary ""It was the damnedest coincidence, running into her in Paris after all these years of avoiding each other in Atlanta."""
overriding	"/əʊvəˈrʌɪdɪŋ/ adj. more important than any other considerations. ""the overriding concern of the organizers was the financial crisis"""
impinge	"/imˈpinj/   v. have an effect or impact, especially a negative one.  ""Nora was determined that the tragedy would impinge as little as possible on Constance's life""    Similar: affect, have an effect on, have a bearing on, touch, influence  v. advance over an area belonging to someone or something else; encroach.  ""the site impinges on a greenbelt area""     Similar: encroach on, intrude on, infringe, invade"
elocution	"/ˌɛləˈkjuːʃ(ə)n/ n. the skill of clear and expressive speech, especially of distinct pronunciation and articulation.  ""lessons in singing and elocution""     Similar: pronunciation, enunciation, articulation, diction, speech"
reverberation	"/rəˌvərbəˈrāSH(ə)n/   n. prolongation of a sound; resonance.  ""electronic effects have been added, such as echo and reverberation""    Similar: resonance, echo, echoing, re-echoing, resounding  n. a continuing effect; a repercussion.  ""the attack has had reverberations around the world"""
unwitting	"/ˌənˈwidiNG/   adj. (of a person) not aware of the full facts.  ""an unwitting accomplice""    Similar: unknowing, unconscious, unsuspecting, oblivious, unaware, innocent  adj. not done on purpose; unintentional.  ""we are anxious to rectify the unwitting mistakes made in the past""     Similar: unintentional, unintended, inadvertent, involuntary"
scowl	"/skoul/   n. an angry or bad-tempered expression.  ""she stamped into the room with a scowl on her face""    Similar: frown, glower, glare, grimace  v. frown in an angry or bad-tempered way.  ""she scowled at him defiantly""     Similar: glower, frown, glare, lour, look daggers at"
drudgery	"/ˈdrəj(ə)rē/   n. hard menial or dull work.  ""domestic drudgery""     Similar: hard work"
refer	"/rəˈfər/   v. mention or allude to.  ""the reports of the commission are often referred to in the media""    Similar: mention, make mention of, make reference to, allude to, touch on  v. pass a matter to (another body, typically one with more authority or expertise) for a decision.  ""disagreement arose and the issue was referred back to the Executive Committee"""
grin	"/ɡrin/   v. smile broadly, especially in an unrestrained manner and with the mouth open.  ""Dennis appeared, grinning cheerfully""    Similar: smile broadly, beam, grin from ear to ear, smile from ear to ear  n. a broad smile.  ""“OK,” he said with a grin""     Similar: smile"
brim	"/brim/   n. the projecting edge at the bottom of a hat.  ""a soft hat with a turned-up brim""     Similar: peak, visor, bill, projection, shield, shade  v. be full to the point of overflowing.  ""my eyes brimmed with tears""     Similar: be full, be filled up   v. be full of a particular quality, feeling, etc. ""he is brimming with ideas"""
lowdown	"/ˈlōdoun/   adj. mean and unfair.  ""dirty lowdown tricks""    Similar: unfair, mean, despicable, reprehensible, contemptible, lamentable  n. the true facts or relevant information about something.  ""get the lowdown on the sit-in""     Similar: inside information, the whole story, the facts, data, information"
capriole	/ˈkaprēˌōl/   n. a movement performed in classical riding, in which the horse leaps from the ground and kicks out with its hind legs.
caterwaul	"/ˈkadərˌwôl/   v. make a shrill howling or wailing noise like that of a cat.  ""he seems to think that singing soulfully is to whine and caterwaul tunelessly""    Similar: howl, wail, bawl, cry, yell, scream, screech, yelp  n. a shrill howling or wailing noise. ""the song ended in a caterwaul of feedback"""
induct	"/inˈdəkt/   v. admit (someone) formally to a position or organization.  ""each worker, if formally inducted into the Mafia, is known as a “soldier.”""   Similar: admit to, allow into, introduce to, initiate into, install in"
entitled	"/inˈtīdld,enˈtīdld/   adj. believing oneself to be inherently deserving of privileges or special treatment. ""kids who feel so entitled and think the world will revolve around them"""
cogitate	"/ˈkäjəˌtāt/   v. think deeply about something; meditate or reflect.  ""he stroked his beard and retired to cogitate""     Similar: think (about), contemplate, consider"
impart	"/imˈpärt/   v. make (information) known; communicate.  ""teachers had a duty to impart strong morals to their students""    Similar: communicate, pass on, convey, transmit, relay, relate, recount  v. bestow (a quality).  ""its main use has been to impart a high surface gloss to finished articles""     Similar: give, bestow, confer, grant, lend, accord, afford, provide"
retention	"/rəˈten(t)SH(ə)n/   n. the continued possession, use, or control of something.  n. the fact of keeping something in one's memory. ""the children's retention of facts""  n. the action of absorbing and continuing to hold a substance. ""the soil's retention of moisture"""
house	"/houz/ v. provide (a person or animal) with shelter or living quarters.    Similar: accommodate  v. provide space for; accommodate.  ""the museum houses a collection of Roman sculpture""     Similar: contain, hold, store, cover, protect, enclose, encase"
jaw-dropping	"/jô ˈdräpiNG/      adj. amazing. ""jaw-dropping displays of genius"""
cahoot	"n. partnership, league ""they're in cahoots"" ""he was robbed by a man who was in cahoots with the bartender."""
don	"/dän/   v. put on (an item of clothing).  ""in the locker room the players donned their football jerseys""     Similar: put on, get dressed in, dress (oneself) in, pull on"
dawn	"/dôn,dän/   v. (of a day) begin.  ""Thursday dawned bright and sunny""    Similar: begin, open, break, arrive, emerge  v. become evident to the mind; be perceived or understood.  ""the awful truth was beginning to dawn on him""     Similar: occur to, come to, come to mind, spring to mind"
chock-full	"/ˌCHäkˈfo͝ol/      adj. filled to overflowing. ""my briefcase is chock-full of notes"""
memento	"/məˈmenˌtō/   n. an object kept as a reminder or souvenir of a person or event.  ""you can purchase a memento of your visit""     Similar: souvenir, keepsake, reminder, remembrance, token, memorial"
cavernous	"/ˈkavənəs/     v. like a cavern in size, shape, or atmosphere.  ""a dismal cavernous hall""  v. giving the impression of vast, dark depths. ""his cavernous eyes"" Similar: vast, huge, large, immense, spacious, roomy, airy"
unhitch	"/ˌənˈhiCH/ v. unhook or unfasten (something tethered to or caught on something else). ""he unhitched the side of the trailer"""
mirthful	"/ˈməːθf(ʊ)l/  adj. full of mirth; merry or amusing.  ""mirthful laughter""     Similar: merry, high-spirited, in high spirits, cheerful, cheery, hilarious"
coruscate	"/ˈkɒrəskeɪt/ v. (of light) flash or sparkle. ""the light was coruscating through the walls"""
figment	"/ˈfɪɡm(ə)nt/ n. a thing that someone believes to be real but that exists only in their imagination.  ""it really was Ross and not a figment of her overheated imagination""     Similar: invention, production, creation, concoction, fabrication, hallucination"
batch	"/batʃ/ n. a quantity or consignment of goods produced at one time.  ""a batch of bread""  v. arrange (things) in sets or groups. ""I had nothing to do but batch the reports"""
regurgitate	"/rəˈɡərjəˌtāt/   v. bring (swallowed food) up again to the mouth.  ""gulls regurgitate food for the chicks""    Similar: vomit, bring up, disgorge, regorge  v. repeat (information) without analyzing or comprehending it.  ""facts that can then be regurgitated at examinations""     Similar: repeat, say again, restate, recapitulate, iterate, reiterate, recite"
stumbling	"/ˈstəmb(ə)liNG/   adj. tripping or losing one's balance while walking; moving with difficulty.  ""they began their stumbling walk home""  adj. making repeated mistakes, especially in speech. ""his uncertain and stumbling choice of words"""
geriatric	"/ˌjerēˈatrik/   adj. relating to old people, especially with regard to their healthcare.  ""a geriatric hospital""  n. an old person who is receiving special care. ""a rest home for geriatrics"""
heartrending	"/ˈhärtˌrendiNG/ adj. causing great sadness or distress.  ""a heart-rending story""     Similar: distressing, upsetting, disturbing, heartbreaking, sad, tragic, painful"
knavish	"/ˈnāviSH/   adj. dishonest or unscrupulous.  ""his knavish tricks will be frustrated""     Similar: dishonorable, unprincipled, unscrupulous, ignoble, untrustworthy"
lave	"/lāv/   v. wash.  ""she ran cold water in the basin, laving her face and hands""  v. (of water) wash against or over (something). ""the sea below laved the shore with small, agitated waves"""
rend	"/rend/    v. tear (something) into two or more pieces.  ""snapping teeth that would rend human flesh to shreds""     Similar: tear/rip apart, split, rupture, sever"
adverse	"/adˈvərs,ˈadˌvərs/   adj. preventing success or development; harmful; unfavorable.  ""taxes are having an adverse effect on production""     Similar: unfavorable, disadvantageous, inauspicious, unpropitious, unfortunate"
ad hoc	"/ˌad ˈhäk/ adv. when necessary or needed. ""the group was constituted ad hoc""  adj. created or done for a particular purpose as necessary.  ""the discussions were on an ad hoc basis""     Similar: impromptu, extempore, extemporary, extemporaneous, expedient"
pulverize	"/ˈpʌlvərʌɪz/   v. reduce to fine particles.  ""the brick of the villages was pulverized by the bombardment""    Similar: grind, crush, pound, crumble, powder, turn to dust, mill, crunch  v. defeat utterly.  ""he had a winning car and pulverized the opposition""     Similar: defeat utterly, annihilate, beat hollow, trounce, rout"
salivate	"/ˈsalɪveɪt/   v. secrete saliva, especially in anticipation of food.  ""the delicious aroma of rich stews made us salivate""  v. display great relish at the sight or prospect of something.  ""I was fairly salivating at the prospect of a $10 million loan"""
motley	"/ˈmɒtli/   adj. incongruously varied in appearance or character; disparate. ""a motley crew of discontents and zealots""  n. an incongruous mixture. ""a motley of interacting interest groups"""
gimmick	"/ˈɡɪmɪk/   n. a trick or device intended to attract attention, publicity, or trade.  ""it is not so much a programme to improve services as a gimmick to gain votes""   Similar: publicity device, stunt, contrivance, eye-catching novelty, scheme  v. alter or augment with an extra device or feature. ""it was using software that had been specially gimmicked to allow for easier surveillance"""
hebetude	"/ˈhɛbɪtjuːd/ n. the state of being dull or lethargic. ""after convalescence I would probably fall back into hebetude"""
sensible	"/ˈsɛnsɪb(ə)l/   adj. done or chosen in accordance with wisdom or prudence; likely to be of benefit.  ""I cannot believe that it is sensible to spend so much""    Similar: practical, realistic, responsible, full of common sense, reasonable  adj. (of an object) practical and functional rather than decorative.  ""Mum always made me have sensible shoes"""
deodorize	"/dɪˈəʊdərʌɪz/   v. remove or conceal an unpleasant smell in.  ""people used dried flowers to deodorize their homes""     Similar: freshen, sweeten, purify, disinfect, sanitize, sterilize, fumigate"
lest	"/lɛst/ conj. with the intention of preventing (something undesirable); to avoid the risk of.  ""he spent whole days in his room, wearing headphones lest he disturb anyone""  conj. (after a clause indicating fear) because of the possibility of something undesirable happening; in case.  ""she sat up late worrying lest he be murdered on the way home""     Similar: in case, just in case, for fear that"
capsize	"/kapˈsʌɪz/   v. (of a boat) be overturned in the water.  ""the craft capsized in heavy seas""    Similar: overturn, turn over, turn upside down, upset, upend, knock over  n. an instance of capsizing. ""do you know what to do in the event of a capsize?"""
tight-lipped	"adj. with the lips firmly closed, especially as a sign of suppressed emotion or determined reticence.  ""she stayed tight-lipped and shook her head""     Similar: reticent, taciturn, uncommunicative, unforthcoming, unresponsive"
pilfer	"/ˈpɪlfə/   v. steal (things of little value).  ""she produced the handful of coins she had managed to pilfer""     Similar: steal, thieve, rob, take, snatch, purloin, loot, rifle"
relent	"/rɪˈlɛnt/   v. abandon or mitigate a severe or harsh attitude, especially by finally yielding to a request.  ""she was going to refuse his request, but relented""    Similar: change one's mind, do a U-turn, back-pedal, back down, give way  v. become less severe or intense.  ""the rain relented""     Similar: ease off, slacken, let up, ease, ease up, relax, abate, drop"
throes	"/THrōz/   n. intense or violent pain and struggle, especially accompanying birth, death, or great change.  ""he convulsed in his death throes""     Similar: agony, pain, paroxysm, pangs, suffering, torture, torment"
prime	"/prʌɪm/   v. make (something) ready for use or action.  v. prepare (a firearm or explosive device) for firing or detonation. ""he grabbed a gun from a nearby wall and primed it"" Similar: prepare, load, set up, ready, make ready, get ready, equip  v. prepare (someone) for a situation, typically by supplying them with relevant information.  ""the sentries had been primed to admit him without challenge""     Similar: brief, give information to, fill in, prepare"
eviscerate	"/ɪˈvɪsəreɪt/   v. disembowel (a person or animal).  ""the goat had been skinned and neatly eviscerated""    Similar: disembowel, gut, remove the innards from, draw, dress, embowel  v. deprive (something) of its essential content. ""myriad little concessions that would eviscerate the project"""
thereof	"/ðɛːrˈɒv/   adv. of the thing just mentioned; of that. ""the member state or a part thereof"" ""Is the property or any part thereof used for commercial activity?"""
partake	"/pɑːˈteɪk/   v. eat or drink (something).  ""he partook of a well-earned drink""    Similar: consume, have, eat, drink, take, devour, polish off, ingest  v. join in (an activity).  ""visitors can partake in golfing or clay pigeon shooting""     Similar: participate in, take part in, engage in, enter into, join in"
boatload	"/ˈbəʊtləʊd/   n. an amount of cargo or number of passengers which will fill a ship or boat.  ""a boatload of coal""  n. a large amount.  ""the Telecommunications Reform Act created a boatload of new regulations"""
commandment	"/kəˈmɑːndmənt/   n. a divine rule, especially one of the Ten Commandments.  ""the Sabbath had to be kept as ordered in the Fourth Commandment""  n. a rule to be observed as strictly as one of the Ten Commandments.  ""she had followed her mother's commandments for long enough"""
constrict	"/kənˈstrɪkt/   v. make narrower, especially by encircling pressure.  ""chemicals that constrict the blood vessels""    Similar: narrow, make/become narrower, tighten, compress, contract  v. become narrower. ""he felt his throat constrict"""
blather	"/ˈblaðə/v. talk in a long-winded way without making very much sense. ""she began blathering on about spirituality and life after death""   Similar: prattle, babble, chatter, twitter, prate, gabble, jabber, go on  n. long-winded talk with no real substance.  ""all the blather coming out of Washington about crime""     Similar: prattle, chatter, twitter, babble, talk, prating, gabble, jabber"
denizen	"/ˈdɛnɪz(ə)n/   n. a person, animal, or plant that lives or is found in a particular place. ""denizens of field and forest""     Similar: inhabitant, resident, townsman, townswoman, native, local"
proselytizing	"/ˈprɒsɪlɪtʌɪzɪŋ/   n. the action of attempting to convert someone from one religion, belief, or opinion to another. ""no amount of proselytizing was going to change their minds"""
rebase	"/riːˈbeɪs/ v. establish a new base level for (a tax level, price index, etc.). ""the retail price index was rebased in January 1987"""
gainfully	"/ˈɡeɪnfʊli,ˈɡeɪnfəli/   adv. in a way that serves to increase wealth or resources. ""she's gainfully employed at the gallery"""
cynosure	"/ˈsʌɪnəʃʊə,ˈsɪnəʃʊə,ˈsʌɪnəzjʊə,ˈsɪnəzjʊə/   n. a person or thing that is the centre of attention or admiration. ""Kirk was the cynosure of all eyes"""
respectively	"/rəˈspektivlē/   adv. separately or individually and in the order already mentioned (used when enumerating two or more items or facts that refer back to a previous statement). ""they received sentences of one year and eight months respectively"""
respecify	"/riːˈspɛsɪˌfaɪ/    v. to specify again""The notation reinforces the point that a single integration routine can be used for many problems by simply respecifying the driving functions."""
confide	"/kənˈfʌɪd/ v. tell someone about a secret or private matter while trusting them not to repeat it to others.  ""he confided his fears to his mother""     Similar: reveal, disclose, divulge, leak, lay bare       v. trust (someone) enough to tell them of a secret or private matter.  ""he confided in friends that he and his wife planned to separate""     Similar: open one's heart to, unburden oneself to, unbosom oneself to, confess to"
beachhead	/ˈbiːtʃhɛd/ n. a defended position on a beach taken from the enemy by landing forces, from which an attack can be launched.
status quo	"/ˈkwəʊ/   n. the existing state of affairs, especially regarding social or political issues. ""they have a vested interest in maintaining the status quo"""
whatsoever	"/wɒtsəʊˈɛvə/ adv. at all (used for emphasis). ""I have no doubt whatsoever"""
sinuous	"/ˈsinyo͞oəs/   adj. having many curves and turns.  ""the river follows a sinuous trail through the forest""     Similar: winding, windy, serpentine, curving, twisting, meandering, snaking"
obeisance	"/ōˈbāsəns,əˈbāsəns,ōˈbēsəns,əˈbēsns/   n. deferential respect.  ""they paid obeisance to the Prince""     Similar: respect, homage, worship, adoration, reverence, veneration   n. a gesture expressing deferential respect, such as a bow or curtsy. ""she made a deep obeisance""      Similar: bow, curtsy, bob, genuflection, salaam"
ration	"/ˈraʃ(ə)n/ n. a fixed amount of a commodity officially allowed to each person during a time of shortage, as in wartime.  ""1947 saw the bread ration reduced""     Similar: allowance, allocation, quota, fixed amount, amount, quantity   v. allow each person to have only a fixed amount of (a commodity).  ""petrol was so strictly rationed that bikes were always in demand""     Similar: control, limit (to a fixed amount), restrict (the consumption of), conserve"
beggar-thy-neighbour	"adj. relating to or being an action or policy that produces gains for one group at the expense of another ""followed beggar-thy-neighbor policies in imposing taxes"""
pander	"/ˈpandə/   v. gratify or indulge (an immoral or distasteful desire or taste or a person with such a desire or taste).  ""newspapers are pandering to people's baser instincts""     Similar: indulge, gratify, satisfy, cater to, give in to, fulfil, yield to, bow to"
gerontocracy	/ˌdʒɛrənˈtɒkrəsi/n. a state, society, or group governed by old people.
imprimatur	"/ˌɪmprɪˈmeɪtə,ˌɪmprɪˈmɑːtə,ˌɪmprɪˈmɑːtʊə/ n. an official licence issued by the Roman Catholic Church to print an ecclesiastical or religious book.   ""the imprimatur for this edition was granted by Cardinal O'Casey""     n. a person's authoritative approval. ""the original LP enjoyed the imprimatur of the composer"""
percolate	"/ˈpəːkəleɪt/ v. (of a liquid or gas) filter gradually through a porous surface or substance.  ""the water percolating through the soil may leach out minerals""     Similar: filter, drain, drip, ooze, seep, trickle, dribble, strain"
exhortation	"/ɛɡzɔːˈteɪʃ(ə)n/ n. an address or communication emphatically urging someone to do something. ""exhortations to consumers to switch off electrical appliances"" Similar: urging, encouragement, persuasion, pressure, pressurization, pushing"
perish	"/ˈpɛrɪʃ/ v. die, especially in a violent or sudden way.  ""a great part of his army perished of hunger and disease""     Similar: die, lose one's life, be killed, fall, expire   v. (of rubber, food, etc.) lose its normal qualities; rot or decay.  ""an abandoned tyre whose rubber had perished""     Similar: go bad, go off, spoil, rot, go mouldy, moulder"
piecemeal	"/ˈpiːsmiːl/ adj. characterized by unsystematic partial measures taken over a period of time.  ""the village is slowly being killed off by piecemeal development""     Similar: a little at a time, piece by piece, bit by bit, gradually, slowly"
incursion	"/inˈkərZHən/   n. an invasion or attack, especially a sudden or brief one.  ""incursions into enemy territory""     Similar: attack on, assault on, raid on, invasion of, storming of, overrunning of"
voluptuous	"/vəˈləp(t)SH(o͞o)əs/   adj. curvaceous and sexually attractive (typically used of a woman).     Similar: curvaceous, shapely, opulent, full-figured, well formed   adj. relating to or characterized by luxury or sensual pleasure.  ""long curtains in voluptuous crimson velvet""     Similar: hedonistic, sybaritic, epicurean, pleasure-loving, pleasure-seeking"
minutiae	"/məˈn(y)o͞oSHēˌē,məˈn(y)o͞oSHēˌī/   n. the small, precise, or trivial details of something.  ""the minutiae of everyday life""     Similar: details, niceties, subtleties, finer points, particulars, specifics, trivia"
dragoon	"/drəˈɡo͞on/   n. a member of any of several cavalry regiments in the British army.     Similar: cavalryman, mounted soldier, horse soldier, cavalier, knight   v. coerce (someone) into doing something.  ""she had been dragooned into helping with the housework""     Similar: coerce, pressure, pressurize"
peccant	"/ˈpekənt/ adj. having committed a fault or sin; offending. ""the peccant officials fell on their knees""   adj. diseased or causing disease.  ""peccant matter"""
macerate	"/ˈmasəˌrāt/   v. (especially with reference to food) soften or become softened by soaking in a liquid.  ""macerate the mustard seeds in vinegar""     Similar: pulp, mash, squash, soften, liquefy, soak, steep, infuse"
studiously	"/ˈstjuːdɪəsli/ adv. with concentration and conscientiousness in one's work or reading.  ""he gets on with his work quietly and studiously""   adv. in a very deliberate manner; with a purpose in mind.  ""she studiously avoided his gaze"""
homage	"n. /ˈhɒmɪdʒ/ n. special honour or respect shown publicly.  ""many villagers come here to pay homage to the Virgin""     Similar: respect, recognition, admiration, esteem, adulation, acclaim"
earmark	"/ˈɪəmɑːk/ v. designate (funds or resources) for a particular purpose.  ""the cash had been earmarked for a big expansion of the programme""     Similar: set aside, lay aside, set apart, keep back, appropriate, reserve"
saboteur	"/ˌsabəˈtəː/ n. a person who engages in sabotage. ""A contractor who harvested corn on the farm gave up when saboteurs planted metal bars in the ground to wreck his combine harvester."""
legerdemain	"/ˌlɛdʒədɪˈmeɪn/ n. skilful use of one's hands when performing conjuring tricks.  ""Readers are invited to imagine how Copperfield will pull off this magic coup, but we reckon it will involve a couple of balls, a cup and plenty of legerdemain.""     Similar: sleight of hand, juggling, conjuring, magic, prestidigitation, wizardry   n. deception; trickery.  ""a classic piece of management legerdemain""     Similar: trickery, cunning, artfulness, craftiness, craft, wiles, chicanery"
bout	"/baʊt/ n. a short period of intense activity of a specified kind.  ""occasional bouts of strenuous exercise""     Similar: spell, period, time, stretch, stint, turn, run, session"
windfall	"/ˈwɪn(d)fɔːl/ n. a large amount of money that is won or received unexpectedly.  ""members are to get an average £520 cash windfall for voting ‘yes’ to the merger""     Similar: bonanza, jackpot, pennies from heaven, unexpected gain"
muffle	"/ˈmʌf(ə)l/ v. wrap or cover for warmth.  ""everyone was muffled up in coats and scarves""     Similar: wrap, wrap up, swathe, swaddle, enfold, envelop, cloak"
heartening	"/ˈhɑːtnɪŋ/ adj. increasing cheerfulness or confidence; encouraging. ""this is the most heartening news of all"""
furore	"/ˌfjʊ(ə)ˈrɔːri,ˌfjʊ(ə)ˈrɔː/ n. an outbreak of public anger or excitement.  ""the verdict raised a furore over the role of courtroom psychiatry""     Similar: commotion, uproar, outcry, disturbance, hubbub, hurly-burly, fuss"
beset	"/bɪˈsɛt/ v. (of a problem or difficulty) trouble (someone or something) persistently.  ""the social problems that beset the UK""     Similar: plague, bedevil, attack, assail, beleaguer, afflict, torment"
diffidence	"/ˈdɪfɪd(ə)ns/ n. modesty or shyness resulting from a lack of self-confidence.  ""I say this with some diffidence""     Similar: shyness, bashfulness, unassertiveness, modesty"
thermalize	"/ˈTHərməˌlīz/   v. attain or cause to attain thermal equilibrium with the environment. ""epithermal neutrons are thermalized at depths where tumors tend to grow"""
layabout	"/ˈleɪəbaʊt/   n. a person who habitually does little or no work.  ""‘How'd you get mixed up with that layabout?’""     Similar: idler, good-for-nothing, ne'er-do-well, do-nothing, loafer, lounger"
confect	"/kənˈfɛkt/ v. make (something elaborate or dainty) from various elements. ""a trifle confected from angelica and piped cream"""
performative	"/pəˈfɔːmətɪv/  adj. relating to or of the nature of dramatic or artistic performance.  ""films which push past the limits of current performative trends""    n. a performative utterance. ""here statements are not descriptive utterances but performatives"""
pugilism	"/ˈpjuːdʒɪlɪz(ə)m/ n. the profession or hobby of boxing.  ""I do not go to displays of pugilism""     Similar: boxing, prizefighting, bare-knuckle boxing/fighting, fisticuffs, sparring"
gridlock	"/ˈɡrɪdlɒk/ n. a situation of very severe traffic congestion.  ""the city reaches gridlock during peak hours"""
pastiche	"/paˈstēSH,päˈstēSH/   n. an artistic work in a style that imitates that of another work, artist, or period.  ""the operetta is a pastiche of 18th century styles""     Similar: imitation, parody, takeoff, pasticcio   v. imitate the style of (an artist or work). ""Gauguin took himself to a Pacific island and pastiched the primitive art he found there"""
fray	"/frā/   v. (of a fabric, rope, or cord) unravel or become worn at the edge, typically through constant rubbing.  ""cheap fabric soon frays""     Similar: unravel, wear, wear thin, wear out, wear away   v. (of a person's nerves or temper) show the effects of strain.     Similar: strain, tax, overtax, irritate, put on edge"
bonfire	"/ˈbänˌfī(ə)r/   n. a large open-air fire used as part of a celebration, for burning trash, or as a signal.  ""the smell of burning leaves from a garden bonfire"""
palter	"/ˈpôltər/   v. equivocate or prevaricate in action or speech.  ""if you palter or double in your answers, I will have thee hung alive in an iron chain""   v. trifle with.  ""this great work should not be paltered with"""
blunt	"/blənt/ v. make or become less sharp.  ""wood can blunt your axe""     Similar: make less sharp, make blunt, make dull adj. (of a knife, pencil, etc.) having a worn-down edge or point; not sharp.  ""a blunt knife""     Similar: not sharp, unsharpened, dull, dulled       adj. (of a person or remark) uncompromisingly forthright.  ""a blunt statement of fact""     Similar: straightforward, frank, plain-spoken, candid, direct, bluff"
touch-and-go	"adj. (of an outcome, especially one that is desired) possible but very uncertain.  ""it was touch-and-go whether she could reach the pram before it overturned""     Similar: uncertain, unsure, unclear, dubious, tight, delicate, sticky   n. a manoeuvre in which an aircraft touches the ground as in landing and immediately takes off again. ""I tried a few touch-and-goes"""
odds and ends	"n. miscellaneous articles or remnants.  ""we bought batteries for the radio and a few other odds and ends""     Similar: bits and pieces, bits and bobs, bits, pieces, stuff, paraphernalia"
perk	"/pəːk/v. become or make more cheerful, lively, or interesting.  ""she'd been depressed, but she seemed to perk up last week""     Similar: cheer up, brighten (up), become more cheerful, become livelier"
upfront	"/ʌpˈfrʌnt,ˈʌpfrʌnt/ adv. at the front; in front.  ""he can play up front or in defence""   adv. (of a payment) in advance.  ""the salesmen are paid commission up front""     Similar: in advance, beforehand, ahead of time   adj. bold, honest, and frank.  ""he'd been upfront about his intentions""   adj. (of a payment) made in advance.  ""an upfront fee of 4%"""
arrears	"/əˈrɪəz/   n. money that is owed and should have been paid earlier.  ""he was suing the lessee for the arrears of rent""     Similar: money owing, outstanding payment(s), debt(s), liabilities, indebtedness"
trudge	"/trəj/ v. walk slowly and with heavy steps, typically because of exhaustion or harsh conditions.  ""I trudged up the stairs""     Similar: plod, tramp, drag oneself, walk heavily, walk slowly, plow   n. a difficult or laborious walk. ""he began the long trudge back"""
reference	"/ˈref(ə)rəns/   v. provide (a book or article) with citations of sources of information. ""each chapter is referenced, citing literature up to 1990""  v. mention or refer to.  ""the media referenced our association in almost 40 articles""   n. the action of mentioning or alluding to something.  ""he made reference to the enormous power of the mass media""     Similar: mention of, allusion to, comment on, remark about, citation of   n. the use of a source of information in order to ascertain something.  ""popular works of reference"""
righteous	"/ˈrʌɪtʃəs/ adj. morally right or justifiable.  ""feelings of righteous indignation about pay and conditions""     Similar: good, virtuous, upright, upstanding, decent, worthy, ethical"
sideline	"/ˈsʌɪdlʌɪn/ n. an activity done in addition to one's main job, especially to earn extra income.  ""a sideline career as a stand-up comic""     Similar: secondary occupation, second job, side job, subsidiary, hobby   n. either of the two lines bounding the longer sides of a football field, basketball court, tennis court, or similar playing area.  ""Gascoigne celebrated his goal by sprinting to the sidelines""   v. cause (a player) to be unable to play in a team or game.  ""an ankle injury has sidelined him for two weeks""   v. remove from the centre of activity or attention; place in a less influential position.  ""backbench MPs have been sidelined and excluded from decision-making"""
prognostication	"/prɒɡnɒstɪˈkeɪʃn/ n. the action of prophesying future events.  ""an unprecedented amount of soul-searching and prognostication""   n. a prophecy. plural noun: prognostications  ""these gloomy prognostications proved to be unfounded""     Similar: prediction, forecast, prophecy, divination, prognosis, projection"
tally	"/ˈtalē/   n. a current score or amount.  ""that takes his tally to 10 goals in 10 games""     Similar: total, score, count, sum, result   v. agree or correspond.  ""their signatures should tally with their names on the register""     Similar: correspond, agree, accord, concur, coincide, match, fit   v. calculate the total number of.  ""the votes were being tallied with abacuses""     Similar: count, calculate, add up, total, enumerate, compute, figure out"
mull	"/məl/    v. think about (a fact, proposal, or request) deeply and at length.  ""she began to mull over the various possibilities""     Similar: ponder, consider,m think over/about, reflect on, contemplate, deliberate"
trounce	"/trouns/   v. defeat heavily in a contest.  ""the Knicks trounced the Rockets on Sunday""     Similar: defeat utterly, beat hollow, win a resounding victory over, annihilate, drub   v. rebuke or punish severely.  ""some shows were trounced by critics""     Similar: thrash, beat, whip, flog, lash, birch, cane, leather, spank"
constitute	"/ˈkɒnstɪtjuːt/    v. be (a part) of a whole.  ""lone parents constitute a great proportion of the poor""     Similar: amount to, add up to, account for, form, make up, compose   v. give legal or constitutional form to (an institution); establish by law.  ""the superior courts were constituted by the Judicature Acts 1873–5""     Similar: inaugurate, initiate, establish, found, create, set up, put in place"
corral	"/kəˈrɑːl/ v. gather together and confine (a group of people or things).  ""the organizers were corralling the crowd into marching formation""   v. put or keep (livestock) in a corral.  ""sheep and goats grazed the plains during the day but they were corralled at night""     Similar: enclose, confine, lock up, shut up, shut in, fence in, pen (in)"
shenanigans	"/ʃɪˈnanɪɡ(ə)nz/ n. secret or dishonest activity or manoeuvring.  ""the chairman was accused of financial shenanigans""   n. silly or high-spirited behaviour; mischief."
kaleidoscope	"/kəˈlīdəˌskōp/   n. a toy consisting of a tube containing mirrors and pieces of colored glass or paper, whose reflections produce changing patterns that are visible through an eyehole when the tube is rotated.       n. a constantly changing pattern or sequence of objects or elements. ""the dancers moved in a kaleidoscope of color"""
smorgasbord	"/ˈsmôrɡəsˌbôrd/   n. a buffet offering a variety of hot and cold meats, salads, hors d'oeuvres, etc.  n. a wide range of something; a variety. ""the album is a smorgasbord of different musical styles"""
deplorable	"/dəˈplôrəb(ə)l/   adj. deserving strong condemnation  ""the deplorable conditions in which most prisoners are held""     Similar: disgraceful, shameful, dishonorable, disreputable, discreditable, unworthy, shabby, inexcusable, unpardonable, unforgivable, reprehensible, despicable, abominable, base, sordid, vile, hateful, contemptible, loathsome, offensive, execrable, heinous, odious, revolting, unspeakable, beyond contempt, beyond the pale, egregious, flagitious         Opposite: admirable    adj. shockingly bad in quality. ""her spelling was deplorable"" Similar: lamentable, regrettable, grievous, unfortunate, wretched, dire"
cocky	"/ˈkäkē/   adj. conceited or arrogant, especially in a bold or impudent way.  ""we were young, brash, cocky—we knew everything""     Similar: arrogant, conceited, overconfident, overweening, cocksure, smug"
conurbation	"/ˌkänərˈbāSH(ə)n/   n. an extended urban area, typically consisting of several towns merging with the suburbs of one or more cities. ""the major conurbations of London and Birmingham"""
brood	"/bro͞od/v. think deeply about something that makes one unhappy.  ""he brooded over his need to find a wife""     Similar: worry about, fret about, agonize over, mope over, moon over   v. (of a bird) sit on (eggs) to hatch them.  ""the male pheasant-tailed jacana takes over once the eggs are laid and broods them""     Similar: incubate, cover, hatch, sit on"
luxuriate	"/ləɡˈZHo͝orēˌāt,ləkˈSHo͝orēˌāt/   v. enjoy oneself in a luxurious way; take self-indulgent delight.  ""she was luxuriating in a long bath""     Similar: revel, bask, delight, take pleasure, wallow, indulge oneself, enjoy"
righteousness	"/ˈrīCHəsnəs/   n. the quality of being morally right or justifiable.  ""we had little doubt about the righteousness of our cause""     Similar: goodness, virtue, virtuousness, uprightness, decency, integrity"
titillate	"/ˈtidəˌlāt/   v. stimulate or excite (someone), especially in a sexual way.  ""these journalists are paid to titillate the public""     Similar: arouse, rouse, excite, stimulate, stir, thrill, interest, attract"
concessive	"/kənˈsɛsɪv/ adj. characterized by or tending to concession.  ""we must look for a more concessive approach"""
spline	"/splīn/   n. a rectangular key fitting into grooves in the hub and shaft of a wheel, especially one formed integrally with the shaft which allows movement of the wheel on the shaft.  v. fit or secure by means of a spline. ""the wiper arm is splined to the wiper motor shaft"""
ipso facto	"/ˌipsō ˈfaktō/   adv. by that very fact or act. ""the enemy of one's enemy may be ipso facto a friend"""
presumably	"/prēˈzo͞oməblē/   adv. used to convey that what is asserted is very likely though not known for certain.  ""the Yakima Indians presumably came from Asia by way of the Bering Strait""     Similar: I assume, I expect, I believe, I presume, I take it, I suppose"
reintegration	"/ˌrēˌin(t)əˈɡrāSH(ə)n/ n. the action or process of integrating someone back into society.  ""soldiers are beginning the process of reintegration into civil society""   n. the action or process of restoring elements regarded as disparate to unity. ""the reintegration of art into everyday life"""
futility	"/fyo͞oˈtilədē/   n. pointlessness or uselessness.  ""the horror and futility of war""     Similar: fruitlessness, vanity, pointlessness, uselessness, worthlessness"
reductio ad absurdum	"/rəˌdəkSHēō ad əbˈsərdəm,rəˈdəktēō ad əbˈsərdəm/ n. a method of proving the falsity of a premise by showing that its logical consequence is absurd or contradictory. ""the argument is a reductio ad absurdum of utilitarianism"""
waddle	"/ˈwäd(ə)l/   v. walk with short steps and a clumsy swaying motion.  ""three geese waddled across the road""    Similar: toddle, dodder, wobble, totter, shamble, sway, rock, lurch"
bespoke	"/bəˈspōk/   adj. made for a particular customer or user. ""a bespoke suit""  adj. making or selling bespoke goods, especially clothing. ""bespoke tailors"""
penal	"/ˈpēn(ə)l/   adj. relating to, used for, or prescribing the punishment of offenders under the legal system.  ""the campaign for penal reform""     Similar: disciplinary, punitive, corrective, correctional, retributive   adj. (of an act or offense) punishable by law."
skate	"/skāt/   v. pass over or refer only fleetingly to (a subject or problem).  ""she seemed to skate over the next part of her story""   v. make quick and easy progress through.  ""he admits he had expected to skate through the system"""
germinate	"/ˈjərməˌnāt/ v. (of a seed or spore) begin to grow and put out shoots after a period of dormancy.     Similar: sprout, put forth shoots, shoot, shoot up, bud, put forth buds   v. come into existence and develop.  ""the idea germinated and slowly grew into an obsession""     Similar: develop, take root, grow, spring up, arise, emerge, evolve"
regimented	"/ˈrejəˌmen(t)əd/   adj. very strictly organized or controlled. ""the regimented life of a long-term prisoner"""
mottled	"/ˈmäd(ə)ld/   adj. marked with spots or smears of color.  ""a bird with mottled brown plumage""     Similar: blotchy, blotched, spotted, spotty, speckled, streaked, streaky"
preposterous	"/prəˈpäst(ə)rəs/   adj. contrary to reason or common sense; utterly absurd or ridiculous.  ""a preposterous suggestion""     Similar: absurd, ridiculous, foolish, stupid, ludicrous, farcical, laughable"
unbeknown	"/ˌənbəˈnōn/   adj. without the knowledge of (someone). ""unbeknown to me, she made some inquiries"""
piddling	"/ˈpid(ə)liNG/   adj. pathetically trivial; trifling.  ""piddling little questions""     Similar: trivial, trifling, petty, footling, slight, small, insignificant"
astray	"/əˈstrā/   adv. away from the correct path or direction.  ""we went astray but a man redirected us""     Similar: off target, wide of the mark, wide, awry, off course, off track   adv. into error or morally questionable behavior.  ""he was led astray by boozy colleagues""     Similar: into wrongdoing, into error, into sin, into iniquity, off the rails"
oodles	"/ˈo͞od(ə)lz/   n. a very great number or amount of something. ""if only I had oodles of cash"""
ditto	"/ˈdidō/   n. the same thing again (used in lists and accounts and often indicated by a ditto mark under the word or figure to be repeated).  n. used to indicate that something already said is applicable a second time.  ""if one folds his arms, so does the other; if one crosses his legs, ditto"""
tottering	"/ˈtädəriNG/   adj. (of a person's steps) feeble or unsteady.  ""she swayed on her feet and took a few tottering steps""   adj. (of a structure) shaking or swaying as if about to collapse.  ""all that was left of this historic building were sections of tottering, smoke-blackened walls"""
lodestar	"/ˈlōdˌstär/   n. a star that is used to guide the course of a ship, especially the Pole Star.     Similar: guide, guiding star, guiding light, role model, model, luminary   n. a person or thing that serves as an inspiration or guide. ""she was his intellectual lodestar"""
bloat	"/blōt/   v. make or become swollen with fluid or gas. ""the fungus has bloated their abdomens"""
airborne	"/ˈerˌbôrn/   adj. transported by air.  ""airborne pollutants""   adj. (of an aircraft) in the air after taking off.  ""the shuttle was airborne""     Similar: flying, in flight, in the air, on the wing, winging, gliding, hovering"
triangulate	"/trīˈaNGɡyəˌlāt/ v. divide (an area) into triangles for surveying purposes.   v. form into a triangle or triangles.  ""the brackets triangulate the frame""   v. (in politics) position oneself in such a way as to appeal to or appease both left-wing and right-wing standpoints."
pomposity	"/pämˈpäsədē/   n. the quality of being pompous; self-importance.  ""his reputation for arrogance and pomposity""     Similar: self-importance, imperiousness, pompousness, sententiousness"
conformity	"/kənˈfôrmədē/   n. compliance with standards, rules, or laws.  ""conformity to regulations""     Similar: compliance with, adherence to, accordance with, observance of   n. behavior in accordance with socially accepted conventions or standards.  ""loyalty to one's party need not imply unquestioning conformity""     Similar: conventionality, traditionalism, orthodoxy, fitting in, following the crowd"
flail	"/flāl/   v. wave or swing or cause to wave or swing wildly.  ""his arms were flailing helplessly""     Similar: wave, swing, thrash around, flap around, beat around, windmill   v. beat; flog.  ""he escorted them, flailing their shoulders with his cane""     Similar: thrash, beat, strike, batter, drub, flog, whip"
grok	"/ɡräk/ v. understand (something) intuitively or by empathy.    ""because of all the commercials, children grok things immediately""   v. empathize or communicate sympathetically; establish a rapport. ""nestling earth couple would like to find water brothers to grok with in peace"""
clobber	"/ˈkläbər/  v. hit (someone) hard.  ""if he does that I'll clobber him!""     Similar: hit, strike, slap, smack, cuff, punch, beat, thrash, thump   v. treat or deal with harshly. ""the recession clobbered other parts of the business""   v. defeat heavily. ""the Braves clobbered the Cubs 23–10"""
rue	"/ro͞o/   v. bitterly regret (something one has done or allowed to happen).  ""Ferguson will rue the day he turned down that offer""     Similar: regret, be sorry about, feel remorse for, repent of, reproach oneself for"
mushy	"/ˈməSHē/  adj. soft and pulpy.  ""mushy vegetables""     Similar: soft, semiliquid, pulpy, pappy, slushy, sloppy, spongy   adj. excessively sentimental.  ""he gets as mushy as a Hallmark valentine""     Similar: sentimental, mawkish, oversentimental, emotional, cloying, sickly"
domicile	"/ˈdäməˌsīl,ˈdōməˌsīl,ˈdäməsəl/  n. the country that a person treats as their permanent home, or lives in and has a substantial connection with.  ""his wife has a domicile of origin in Germany""    v. treat a specified country as a permanent home.  ""the tenant is domiciled in the US"""
misdeed	"/ˌmisˈdēd/ n. a wicked or illegal act.  ""his past misdeeds were forgiven""     Similar: wrongdoing, wrong, evil deed, crime, felony, criminal act"
slavishly	"/ˈslāvəSHlē/ adv. in a servile or submissive manner.  ""he slavishly followed the party line""   adv. in a way that shows no attempt at originality. ""they adhere slavishly to a script written for them"""
diminish	"/dəˈminiSH/ v. make or become less.  ""a tax whose purpose is to diminish spending""     Similar: decrease, decline, reduce, lessen, shrink, contract, grow smaller   v. make (someone or something) seem less impressive or valuable.  ""the trial has aged and diminished him""     Similar: belittle, disparage, denigrate, deprecate, depreciate, devalue"
evocative	"/əˈväkədiv/ adj. bringing strong images, memories, or feelings to mind.  ""powerfully evocative lyrics""     Similar: reminiscent, suggestive, redolent, resonant with, expressive, vivid"
squirm	"/skwərm/ v. wriggle or twist the body from side to side, especially as a result of nervousness or discomfort.  ""all my efforts to squirm out of his grasp were useless""     Similar: wriggle, wiggle, writhe, twist, slide, slither, turn, shift   v. show or feel embarrassment or shame. ""he squirmed as he recalled the phrases he had used""   n. a wriggling movement. ""the toddler gave a sudden squirm"""
deterrence	"/dəˈtərəns,dəˈterəns/ n. the action of discouraging an action or event through instilling doubt or fear of the consequences. ""nuclear missiles remain the main deterrence against possible aggression"""
unlearn	"/ˌənˈlərn/ v. discard (something learned, especially a bad habit or false or outdated information) from one's memory. ""teachers are being asked to unlearn rigid rules for labeling and placing children"""
secretariat	"/ˌsekrəˈterēət/ n. a permanent administrative office or department, especially a governmental one.   ""the European Secretariat in Luxembourg"""
spelunking	"/spəˈləNGkiNG/ n. the exploration of caves, especially as a hobby. ""Neil spoke of the virginal spelunking in the mountains"""
sup	"v. take (drink or liquid food) by sips or spoonfuls. ""she supped up her soup delightedly""  n. a sip of liquid. ""he took another sup of wine"""
detent	"/di-ˈtent/ n. a catch in a machine which prevents motion until released.   ""a system of detents is used to ensure that gears are held in whatever position is selected""   n. (in a clock) a catch that regulates striking."
prune	"/pruːn/ v. trim (a tree, shrub, or bush) by cutting away dead or overgrown branches or stems, especially to increase fruitfulness and growth.  ""now is the time to prune roses""     Similar: cut back, trim, thin, thin out, pinch back, crop, clip, shear"
attenuation	"/əˌtenjuˈeɪʃn/ n. the reduction of the force, effect, or value of something.  ""human security required the attenuation of a wide range of threats to people""   n. the reduction of the amplitude of a signal, electric current, or other oscillation. ""the products are used mostly by aircraft manufacturers for noise attenuation in engine housings"""
honcho	"/haan·chow/ n. a leader or manager; the person in charge.  ""the company's head honcho in the US""   v. be in charge of (a project or situation). ""the task at hand was to honcho an eighteen-wheeler to St. Louis"""
proprietary	"/pruh·prai·uh·teh·ree/ adj. relating to an owner or ownership. ""the company has a proprietary right to the property""  n. an owner; proprietor."
precipice	"/preh·suh·puhs/ n. a very steep rock face or cliff, especially a tall one.  ""we swerved toward the edge of the precipice""     Similar: cliff face, steep cliff, rock face, sheer drop, cliff, crag, bluff"
concoct	"/kuhn·kaakt/ v. make (a dish or meal) by combining various ingredients.  ""she began to concoct a dinner likely to appeal to him""     Similar: prepare, make, put together, assemble, cook, fix, rustle up   v. create or devise (a story or plan).  ""his cronies concocted a simple plan""     Similar: make up, think up, dream up, fabricate, invent, contrive"
hotch-potch	"/haach·paach/ n. a confused mixture.  ""a hotchpotch of uncoordinated services""     Similar: mixture, mix, mixed bag, assortment, assemblage, collection   n. a mutton stew with mixed vegetables."
fodder	"/faa·dr/ n. food, especially dried hay or feed, for cattle and other livestock.  v. give fodder to (cattle or other livestock). ""the animals need foddering"""
seep	"/seep/ v. (of a liquid) flow or leak slowly through porous material or small holes.  ""water began to seep through the soles of his boots""     Similar: ooze, trickle, exude, drip, dribble, flow, issue, discharge"
undulation	"/uhn·juh·lay·shn/ n. the action of moving smoothly up and down. ""the soft undulation of the waves animates the scene""  n. a smoothly rising and falling form, outline, or movement. ""the road follows the undulations of the countryside"""
tinker	"/ting·kr/ n. (especially in former times) a person who travels from place to place mending metal utensils as a way of making a living.  n. an act of attempting to repair something.  v. attempt to repair or improve something in a casual or desultory way, often to no useful effect.  ""he spent hours tinkering with the car""     Similar: try to mend/improve, work amateurishly on, fiddle with, play (around) with"
rudder	/ruh·dr/ n. a flat piece hinged vertically near the stern of a boat or ship for steering.
bore	"/bor/ v. make (a hole) in something, especially with a revolving tool.  ""the drill can bore through rock""     Similar: drill, pierce, perforate, puncture, punch, cut, tunnel, burrow   v. make one's way through (a crowd).   n. the hollow part inside a gun barrel or other tube."
truism	"/troo·i·zm/ n. a statement that is obviously true and says nothing new or interesting.  ""the truism that you get what you pay for""     Similar: platitude, commonplace, cliché, stock phrase, banality, old chestnut"
thimbleful	"/ˈθɪm.bəl.fʊl/ n. a small quantity of liquid, especially alcohol.  ""a thimbleful of brandy""     Similar: bit, spot, dram, nip, drop, splash, little, some"
marvel	"/maar·vl/ v. be filled with wonder or astonishment.  ""she marveled at Jeffrey's composure""     Similar: be amazed, be filled with amazement, be astonished, be surprised   n. a wonderful or astonishing person or thing.  ""the marvels of technology""     Similar: wonder, miracle, wonderful thing, amazing thing, sensation"
wrong-foot	"v. (in a game) play so as to catch (an opponent) off balance.  ""Cook wrong-footed the defense with a low free kick""   v. put (someone) in a difficult or embarrassing situation by saying or doing something that they do not expect. ""an announcement regarded as an attempt to wrong-foot the opposition"""
sequester	"/suh·kweh·str/ v. isolate or hide away.  ""Tiberius was sequestered on an island""     Similar: isolate oneself, hide oneself away, shut oneself away, seclude oneself   v. take legal possession of (assets) until a debt has been paid or other claims have been met.  ""the power of courts to sequester the assets of unions"""
ruefully	"/roo·fuh·lee/ adv. in a way that expresses sorrow or regret, especially in a wry or humorous manner. ""the actor ruefully remarked that you are only as good as your last film"""
codify	"/kow·duh·fai/ v. arrange (laws or rules) into a systematic code.  ""the statutes have codified certain branches of common law""     Similar: systematize, systemize, organize, arrange, order, marshal, set out   v. arrange according to a plan or system. ""Verdi helped codify an international operatic culture"""
swoosh	"/swoosh/ n. the sound produced by a sudden rush of air or liquid. ""the swoosh of surf""  v. move with a swoosh. ""swooshing down beautiful ski slopes"""
curlicue	"/ˈkər-lē-ˌkyü/ n. a decorative curl or twist in calligraphy or in the design of an object. ""the wide bridge was decorated with gilded wrought-iron curlicues"""
mope	"/mowp/ v. be dejected and apathetic.  ""no use moping—things could be worse""     Similar: brood, sulk, be miserable, be gloomy, be sad, be despondent   n. a person given to prolonged spells of low spirits.  ""they're just a bunch of mopes""     Similar: melancholic, depressive, pessimist, prophet of doom, killjoy"
disservice	"/di(s)ˈsərvis/ n. a harmful action.   ""you have done a disservice to the African people by ignoring this fact""     Similar: unkindness, bad turn, ill turn, disfavor, mischief, injury, harm"
serviceable	"/ˈsərvəsəb(ə)l/  adj. fulfilling its function adequately; usable.  ""an aging but still serviceable water supply system""     Similar: in working order, working, functioning, functional, operational   adj. functional and durable rather than attractive.     Similar: functional, utilitarian, sensible, practical, nondecorative, plain   adj. in working order. ""only twelve aircraft were fully serviceable this morning"""
portend	"/pôrˈtend/  v. be a sign or warning that (something, especially something momentous or calamitous) is likely to happen.  ""the eclipses portend some major events""     Similar: presage, augur, foreshadow, foretell, prophesy, be a sign of"
ape	"/āp/ v. imitate the behavior or manner of (someone or something), especially in an absurd or unthinking way.  ""new architecture can respect the old without aping its style""     Similar: imitate, mimic, copy, do an impression of, echo, parrot, take off"
chug	"/tʃʌɡ/  v. (of a vehicle or boat) move slowly making regular muffled explosive sounds, as of an engine running slowly. ""a cabin cruiser was chugging down the river""   v. make a series of muffled explosive sounds. ""he could hear the pipes chugging""   v. consume (a drink) in large gulps without pausing. ""she chugged a glass of cola"" Similar: gulp, guzzle, quaff, swig"
disarray	"/ˌdɪsəˈreɪ/  n. a state of disorganization or untidiness.  ""her grey hair was in disarray""     Similar: disorder, confusion, chaos, untidiness, dishevelment, mess   v. throw into a state of disorganization or untidiness.  ""the inspection disarrayed the usual schedule""     Similar: disarrange, make untidy, bring/throw into disarray, bring/throw into disorder"
intercalate	"/inˈtərkəˌlāt,ˌintərkəˈlāt/ v. interpolate (an intercalary period) in a calendar. ""a system was introduced to intercalate an extra month in the calendar""   v. insert (something) between layers in a crystal lattice, geological formation, or other structure.  ""the interlayer spaces of the graphite host lattice are filled with intercalated layers"""
mom-and-pop	"/ˌmɒm(ə)n(d)ˈpɒp/ adj. denoting a small shop of a type often run by a married couple. ""a mom-and-pop store"""
reverie	"/ˈrev(ə)rē/ n. a state of being pleasantly lost in one's thoughts; a daydream.  ""a knock on the door broke her reverie""     Similar: daydream, daydreaming, trance, fantasy, vision, fancy"
thee	"/T͟Hē/  n. archaic or dialect form of you, as the singular object of a verb or preposition. ""we beseech thee O lord"""
thou	"/T͟Hou/ n. archaic or dialect form of you, as the singular subject of a verb. ""thou art fair, O my beloved"""
thy	"/T͟Hī/ n. archaic or dialect form of your. ""honor thy father and thy mother"""
restitution	"/ˌrɛstɪˈtjuːʃn/ n. the restoration of something lost or stolen to its proper owner.  ""the ANC had demanded the restitution of land seized from black people""     Similar: return, restoration, handing back, replacement, surrender, yielding    n. recompense for injury or loss.  ""he was ordered to pay £6,000 in restitution""     Similar: compensation, recompense, reparation, damages, indemnification"
swanky	"/ˈswaŋki/ adj. stylishly luxurious and expensive.  ""directors with swanky company cars""   adj. using one's wealth, knowledge, or achievements to try to impress others."
chumminess	/ˈtʃʌminəs/ n. the fact of being very friendly
absquatulate	"/əbˈskwɒtjʊleɪt/  v. leave abruptly. ""some overthrown dictator who had absquatulated to the USA"""
munch	"/mʌn(t)ʃ/  v. eat (something) steadily and often audibly.  ""Russell munched his breakfast toast""     Similar: chew, champ, chomp, masticate, crunch, scrunch, eat"
detente	"/dāˈtänt/  n. the easing of hostility or strained relations, especially between countries. ""a serious effort at detente with the eastern bloc"""
best	"/best/ v. outwit or get the better of (someone).  ""she refused to allow herself to be bested""     Similar: defeat, beat, get the better of, gain the advantage over"
subversive	"/səbˈvərsiv/ adj. seeking or intended to subvert an established system or institution.  ""subversive literature""     Similar: disruptive, troublemaking, inflammatory, insurgent, insurrectionary   n. a subversive person.  ""they and their companions were identified as subversives""     Similar: troublemaker, dissident, agitator, disruptor, revolutionary"
schuss	"/SHo͞os/ v. make a straight downhill run on skis. ""he schussed down the shallower pistes"""
chutzpah	"/ˈho͝otspə,ˈKHo͝otspə/   n. extreme self-confidence or audacity.  ""love him or hate him, you have to admire Cohen's chutzpah""     Similar: audacity, cheek, guts, nerve, boldness, self-confidence, gall"
patronizing	"/ˈpatrənʌɪzɪŋ/ adj. apparently kind or helpful but betraying a feeling of superiority; condescending.   ""we both occasionally experienced patronizing attitudes from staff"""
rebellion	반항
extinguish	불을 끄다
dormancy	휴면
withstand	버티다
hypnosis	최면
coincide	일치, 우연
illicit	불법
lush	풍부한 (rich)
copious	풍부한. torrential
reluctance	꺼려하고 그렇게 하고 싶어하지 않아하는 것. 그런 태도.
feel repugnance toward	혐오감을 느끼다
reclusive	은둔하는
ceasefire	휴전
conviction	신념 신앙심
rectify	바로잡다 고치다
inexplicable	설명할 수 없는 - Not explainable
paralysis	마비
account	설명
